

A 
The term "hedge fund" originated from the paired 
Hedge funds are made available only to certain sophisticated or 
Hedge funds have existed for many decades and have become increasingly popular. They have now grown to be a substantial fraction of 
Hedge funds are almost always 
Many hedge fund investment strategies aim to achieve a positive 
The word "hedge", meaning a line of bushes around the perimeter of a field, has long been used as a metaphor for placing limits on risk.
During the US 
The sociologist 
In the 1970s, hedge funds specialized in a single strategy with most fund managers following the 
During the 1990s, the number of hedge funds increased significantly, with the 
During the first decade of the 21st century hedge funds gained popularity worldwide, and by 2008 the worldwide hedge fund industry held US$1.93 trillion in 
In June 2011, the hedge fund management firms with the greatest AUM were 
In July 2017, hedge funds recorded their eighth consecutive monthly gain in returns with assets under management rising to a record $3.1 trillion.
In 2015, 
Hedge fund strategies are generally classified among four major categories: 
The elements contributing to a hedge fund strategy include: the hedge fund's approach to the market; the particular instrument used; the 
Sometimes hedge fund strategies are described as "
Hedge funds using a global macro investing strategy take sizable 
Global macro strategies can be divided into discretionary and systematic approaches. Discretionary trading is carried out by investment managers who identify and select investments, whereas 
Within global macro strategies, there are further sub-strategies including "systematic diversified", in which the fund trades in diversified markets, or sector specialists cush as "systematic currency" , in which the fund trades in 
Directional investment strategies use market movements, trends, or inconsistencies when picking stocks across a variety of markets. Computer models can be used, or fund managers will identify and select investments. These types of strategies have a greater exposure to the fluctuations of the overall market than do market neutral strategies.
Within directional strategies, there are a number of sub-strategies. "
Event-driven strategies concern situations in which the underlying investment opportunity and risk are associated with an event.
Corporate transactional events generally fit into three categories: 
Risk arbitrage
Special situations are events that impact the value of a company's stock, including the 
Other event-driven strategies include: credit arbitrage strategies, which focus on corporate 
Relative value arbitrage strategies take advantage of relative discrepancies in price between securities. The price discrepancy can occur due to mispricing of securities compared to related securities, the 
In addition to those strategies within the four main categories, there are several strategies that do not fit into these categorizations or can apply across several of them.

For an investor who already holds large quantities of equities and bonds, investment in hedge funds may provide diversification and reduce the overall portfolio risk.
Investors in hedge funds are, in most countries, required to be qualified investors who are assumed to be aware of the 
In addition to assessing the market-related risks that may arise from an investment, investors commonly employ 
Since hedge funds are private entities and have few public 
Hedge funds share many of the same types of risk as other investment classes, including 
Many investment funds use 
Some types of funds, including hedge funds, are perceived as having a greater 
Hedge fund management firms typically charge their funds both a 
Management fees are calculated as a percentage of the fund's 
The 
Almost all hedge fund performance fees include a "
Some performance fees include a "
Some hedge funds charge a redemption fee (or withdrawal fee]]) for early withdrawals during a specified period of time (typically a year), or when withdrawals exceed a predetermined percentage of the original investment.
Hedge fund management firms are often owned by their 
Earnings at the very top are higher than in any other sector of the financial industry,
In 2011, the top manager earned $3,000m, the tenth earned $210m, and the 30th earned $80m.
Of the 1,226 people on the 
A porfolio manager risks losing his past compensation if he engages in 
A hedge fund is an 
Prime brokers
Hedge fund administrators
Calculation of the 
Administrator 
A distributor is an 
Most funds use an independent 
The legal structure of a specific hedge fund, in particular its 
US tax-exempt investors (such as 
Deutsche Bank and Barclays created special options accounts for hedge fund clients in the banks’ names and claimed to own the assets, when in fact the hedge fund clients had full control of the assets and reaped the profits. The hedge funds would then execute trades — many of them a few seconds in duration — but wait until just after a year had passed to exercise the options, allowing them to report the profits at a lower long-term capital gains tax rate.
The US 
These banks and hedge funds involved in this case used dubious structured financial products in a giant game of 'let’s pretend,' costing the Treasury billions and bypassing safeguards that protect the economy from excessive bank lending for stock speculation.
A dozen other hedge funds along with Renaissance Technologies used 
In contrast to the funds themselves, investment managers are primarily located 
London was Europe's leading center for hedge fund managers, but since the 
Hedge fund legal structures vary depending on location and the investor(s). US hedge funds aimed at US-based, taxable investors are generally structured as 
By contrast, 
The investment manager who organizes the hedge fund may retain an interest in the fund, either as the general partner of a limited partnership or as the holder of "founder shares" in a corporate fund.
A side pocket is a mechanism whereby a fund compartmentalizes assets that are relatively 
Side pockets were widely used by hedge funds during the 
Hedge funds must abide by the national, federal, and state regulatory laws in their respective locations. The U.S. regulations and restrictions that apply to hedge funds differ from those that apply to its mutual funds.
In 2007 in an effort to engage in 
Hedge funds within the US are subject to regulatory, reporting, and record-keeping requirements.
In December 2004, the SEC began requiring hedge fund advisers, managing more than US$25 million and with more than 14 investors, to register with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act.
The U.S.'s 
Within the European Union (EU), hedge funds are primarily regulated through their managers.
In the EU, managers are subject to the 
Some hedge funds are established in 
In South Africa, investment fund managers must be approved by, and register with, the Financial Services Board (FSB).
Performance statistics for individual hedge funds are difficult to obtain, as the funds have historically not been required to report their performance to a central repository, and restrictions against public offerings and advertisement have led many managers to refuse to provide performance information publicly. However, summaries of individual hedge fund performance are occasionally available in industry journals
One estimate is that the average hedge fund returned 11.4% per year,
Hedge funds performance is measured by comparing their returns to an estimate of their risk.
New performance measures have been introduced that attempt to address some of theoretical concerns with traditional indicators, including: modified 
There is a debate over whether 
Indices that track hedge fund returns are, in order of development, called Non-investable, Investable, and Clone. They play a central and unambiguous role in traditional asset markets, where they are widely accepted as representative of their underlying portfolios. Equity and debt 
Non-investable indices are indicative in nature, and aim to represent the performance of some database of hedge funds using some measure such as mean, median, or weighted mean from a hedge fund database. The databases have diverse selection criteria and methods of construction, and no single database captures all funds. This leads to significant differences in reported performance between different indices. 

Although they aim to be representative, non-investable indices suffer from a lengthy and largely unavoidable list of 
The short lifetimes of many hedge funds means that there are many new entrants and many departures each year, which raises the problem of 
When a fund is added to a database for the first time, all or part of its historical data is recorded ex-post in the database. It is likely that funds only publish their results when they are favorable, so that the average performances displayed by the funds during their incubation period are inflated. This is known as "instant history bias" or "backfill bias".

Investable indices are an attempt to reduce these problems by ensuring that the return of the index is available to shareholders. To create an investable index, the index provider selects funds and develops structured products or derivative instruments that deliver the performance of the index. When investors buy these products the index provider makes the investments in the underlying funds, making an investable index similar in some ways to a fund of hedge funds portfolio.

To make the index investable, hedge funds must agree to accept investments on the terms given by the constructor. To make the index liquid, these terms must include provisions for redemptions that some managers may consider too onerous to be acceptable. This means that investable indices do not represent the total universe of hedge funds. Most seriously, they under-represent more successful managers, who typically refuse to accept such investment protocols.

The most recent addition to the field approach the problem in a different manner. Instead of reflecting the performance of actual hedge funds they take a statistical approach to the analysis of historic hedge fund returns, and use this to construct a model of how hedge fund returns respond to the movements of various investable financial assets. This model is then used to construct an investable portfolio of those assets. This makes the index investable, and in principle they can be as representative as the hedge fund database from which they were constructed. However, these clone indices rely on a statistical modelling process. Such indices have too short a history to state whether this approach will be considered successful.

In March 2017, HFR – a hedge fund research data and service provider – reported that there were more hedge-fund closures in 2016 than during the 2009 recession. According to the report, several large public pension funds pulled their investments in hedge funds, because the funds’ subpar performance as a group did not merit the high fees they charged.

Despite the hedge fund industry topping $3 trillion for the first time ever in 2016, the number of new hedge funds launched fell short of levels before the 
Systemic risk
However, these claims are widely disputed by the financial industry,
Nevertheless, although hedge funds go to great lengths to reduce the ratio of risk to reward, inevitably a number of risks remain.
An August 2012 survey by the 
Hedge funds are structured to avoid most direct 
Funds may choose to report some information in the interest of recruiting additional investors. Much of the data available in consolidated databases is self-reported and unverified.
A lack of verification of financial documents by investors or by independent auditors has, in some cases, assisted in 
The process of matching hedge funds to investors has traditionally been fairly opaque, with investments often driven by personal connections or recommendations of portfolio managers.
In June 2006, prompted by a letter from 
The systemic practice of hedge funds submitting periodic electronic questionnaires to stock analysts as a part of market research was reported by 
According to 
However, there are three reasons why one might not wish to allocate a high proportion of assets into hedge funds. These reasons are:

Several studies have suggested that hedge funds are sufficiently diversifying to merit inclusion in investor portfolios, but this is disputed for example by 
The other factor reducing the attractiveness of hedge funds in a diversified portfolio is that they tend to perform poorly during equity 

Infrastructure asset management
Infrastructure asset management is a specific term of asset management focusing on 
The first published use of the term 
After decades of 
After World War II, with the policies of the 
In 
The basic premise of infrastructure asset management is to intervene at strategic points in an asset's normal life cycle to extend the expected 
Essential processes and activities for infrastructure asset management include the following:

These processes and activities are interrelated and interdependent aspects that usually cross organizational boundaries including finance, engineering, and operations.
In 2014 ISO published an international management system standard for asset management.
Politically, many legal and governmental initiatives have emphasized proactive asset management given the current state of an aging infrastructure and fiscal challenges. Recent developments include the 
Still other proponents for proactive management include judicial consent decrees for facility managers to resolve noncompliance with environmental standards set by EPA or state 
Despite the current challenges of the time's financial constraints, one advantage is the growing availability of 
The Institute of Infrastructure Asset Management (IIAM), a U.S.-based transportation consultancy, works to promote the same issues and collaborates with other organizations, such as in the INFRAASSETS2010 conference in 
The IIAM approach to infrastructure asset management is based upon the definition of a 
The key components of "Infrastructure Asset Management" are: 

Public asset management expands the definition of 
Among the GISs in use for infrastructure management in the USA are GE 
An executive education program in infrastructure asset management (Certificate of Advanced Studies Managing Infrastructure Assets, CASMIA, 16ECTS) has been developed  since 2012, launched in 2014 and funded by Swiss federal Agency of Energy (SFOE). It is the only individual and organizational learning program worldwide that operates by changing university institute hosts. This ensures that the emerging MIA profession can cope with cross-disciplinary content critically and universities review curriculum. Former university institutes include ETH Zurich (IBI) and University of St. Gallen (HSG-ACA). This program also ensures the highest possible 

Catastrophe bonds
Catastrophe bonds emerged from a need by insurance companies to alleviate some of the risks they would face if a major catastrophe occurred, which would incur damages that they could not cover by the invested 
For example, if an insurer has built up a portfolio of risks by insuring properties in Florida, then it might wish to pass some of this risk on so that it can remain solvent after a large 
Michael Moriarty, Deputy Superintendent of the 
The notion of securitizing catastrophe risks became prominent in the aftermath of 
The market grew to $1–2 billion of issuance per year for the 1998–2001 period, and over $2 billion per year following 
It is also possible to adapt these instruments to other contexts. 
Investors choose to invest in catastrophe bonds because their return is largely uncorrelated with the return on other investments in 
Key categories of investors who participate in this market include 
A number of specialized catastrophe-oriented funds play a significant role in the sector, including Twelve Capital,
Cat bonds are often rated by an agency such as 
Most catastrophe bonds are issued by special purpose reinsurance companies domiciled in the 
Some bonds cover the risk that multiple losses will occur.  The first-second event bond (Atlas Re) was issued in 1999.  The first third event bond (Atlas II) was issued in 2001.  Subsequently, bonds triggered by fourth through ninth losses have been issued, including Avalon, Bay Haven, and Fremantle, each of which apply tranching technology to baskets of underlying events.  The first actively managed pool of bonds and other contracts ("Catastrophe 
The sponsor and investment bank who structure the cat bond must choose how the principal impairment is triggered.  Cat bonds can be categorized into four basic trigger types.
Indemnity
Modeled loss
Indexed to industry loss
Parametric
Parametric Index
Examples of cat bond sponsors include insurers, reinsurers, corporations, and government agencies.  Over time, frequent issuers have included 
To date, all direct catastrophe bond investors have been 
Investment banks and Inter Dealer Brokers that are active in the trading and issuance of catastrophe bonds include 
There are a number of issued US 

A 
Viatical settlements
Although the secondary market for life insurance is relatively new, the market was more than 100 years in the making. The life settlement market would not have originated without a number of events, judicial rulings and key individuals.

The 
This decision established a life insurance policy as transferable property that contains specific legal rights, including the right to:

In the 1980s, the U.S. faced an 
A life settlement is similar to a viatical settlement, but in a life settlement transaction, the insured is typically at least 65 years old and is not chronically or terminally ill.
In 2001, the 
On April 29, 2009, the United States Senate Special Committee on Aging conducted a study and came to the conclusion that life settlements, on average, yield 8x more than the cash surrender value offered by life insurance companies.
Life settlement providers serve as the purchaser in a life settlement transaction and are responsible for paying the client a cash sum greater than the policy's 
Life Settlement providers must be licensed in the state where the policy owner resides. Approximately 41 states have regulations in place regarding the sale of life insurance policies to third parties.

Generally, a life settlement broker is a person who, for compensation, solicits, negotiates, or offers to solicit or negotiate, a life settlement contract.
A life settlement broker, in exchange for a fee, will shop a policy to multiple providers, much as a real estate broker solicits multiple offers for one's home.  While it is the broker's duty to collect bids, it is still incumbent on the advisor to help the client evaluate the offers against a number of criteria including offer price, stability of funding, privacy provisions, net yield after commissions, and more.

As part of the purchase transaction the investor assumes responsibility for paying all future premiums required to keep the policy in force.

Compensation arrangements vary significantly and should be fully disclosed and understood to determine if engaging a broker will benefit the client.

In states that regulate life settlements, there are laws pertaining to procedure, privacy, licensing, disclosure, and reporting, which if violated, may subject the broker to penalties. For instance, the state of California provides strict regulation for the industry.
Life settlement investors are known as financing entities because they are providing the capital or financing for life settlement transactions (the purchase of a life insurance policy). Life settlement investors may use their own capital to purchase the policies or may raise the capital from a wide range of investors through a variety of structures. The life settlement provider is the entity that enters into the transaction with the policy-owner and pays the policy-owner when the life settlement transaction closes. In most cases, the life settlement provider has a written agreement with the life settlement investor to provide the life settlement provider with the funds needed to acquire the policy. In this scenario, the life settlement investor is effectively the ultimate funder of the secondary market transaction. However, in some life settlement transactions, the life settlement provider is also the investor; the provider uses its own capital to purchase the policy for its own portfolio.
Life expectancy providers (LEPs) are specialized independent companies that issue life expectancy reports (LERs) that estimate the life expectancy (LE) of an individual (typically the insured individual on whose life a life insurance policy involved in a life settlement is based). Life expectancies are not a prediction of how long an individual will live, but rather are the average survival time amongst a particular risk cohort. Risk cohorts are typically grouped by age, gender, smoking, and relative health/morbidity. LE is a key component in the pricing of a life settlement.

LEPs are typically made up of actuaries and medical underwriters who utilize actuarial models based on published or proprietary mortality (life) tables and 
The Life Insurance Settlement Association (LISA) supports the enactment of legislation to stop STOLI and believes that the STOLI argument is frequently 
used to attack legitimate life settlements. 

STOLI is not a life settlement. Life settlements occur long after issuance of the policy.

STOLI
Insurers may refuse to make payments on STOLI arrangements.
STOLI occurs at the point a policy is issued by a carrier or when a policy is issued through an agent under a STOLI scheme, the policyholder has no “insurable interest”. The common law in both England and the United States long-abhorred insurance without an interest as a “mischievous kind of gaming” and so developed the insurable interest doctrine i.e., that an owner of a policy must have an interest in that insured.
STOLI became so popular that many producers and insurers confused it with legitimate life settlements, which are transacted on properly originated policies with valid insurable interest at issue.

In 1993, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”)
passed the Viatical Settlements Model Act (the “NAIC Model”).
The five-year waiting period, tests the insured's “good faith” purchase by imposing a holding period, during which the insured must make costly premium payments. It also tests the investors’ risk tolerance, as they cannot be certain that an insured will survive the holding period in order to assign the policy. The NAIC Model, however, is less effective in combating schemes that use trusts, financing, and beneficial interests in the trusts as a means of gambling on the lives of strangers.
The Viatical Settlement Model Act originated by the NAIC was followed by the National Conference of Insurance Legislators’ (“NCOIL”) own model act: The Life
Settlements Model Act (the “NCOIL Model”).  

The NCOIL Model more directly addresses the multitude of schemes that life insurers have faced since the NAIC Model's promulgation. As a result, the NCOIL Model is much broader in scope and attempts to bring within its prohibitions all manifestations of STOLI, including indirect sales of beneficial interests in trusts or policies.
STOLI is defined as a
‘Stranger-Originated Life Insurance’ or ‘STOLI’ is a practice or plan to initiate a life insurance policy for the benefit of a third party investor who, at the time of policy origination, has no insurable interest in the insured. STOLI practices include but are not limited to cases in which life insurance is purchased with resources or guarantees from or through a person, or entity, who, at the time of policy inception, could not lawfully initiate the policy himself or itself, and where, at the time of inception, there is an arrangement or agreement, whether verbal or written, to directly or indirectly transfer the ownership of the policy and/or the policy benefits to a third party. Trusts, that are created to give the appearance of insurable interest, and are used to initiate policies for investors, violate insurable interest laws and the prohibition against wagering on life. STOLI arrangements do not include those practices set forth in Section 2L(2) of this Act. 

When settling a contract, a broker cannot use a provider, and vice versa, unless each knows that the other is licensed under the NCOIL Model. Licensed brokers and providers must report annually to state insurance commissioners regarding their internal controls, including their “anti-fraud plan” that must include procedures for (i) detecting possible fraudulent acts, (ii) resolving material inconsistencies between medical records and insurance applications, (iii) reporting fraudulent insurance acts, (iv) providing anti-fraud education of and training for underwriters and others, and (v) outlining personnel to investigate and report activities that may be fraudulent.

The beginning of the end for STOLI came in December 2005, when the New York State Insurance Department released a General Counsel Opinion that STOLI-type arrangements violated insurable interest laws. This ruling had significant impact on the STOLI industry. State legislatures began passing anti-STOLI legislation that would make it easier to enforce insurable interest laws. Insurers — many of whom either ignored, supported, or were oblivious to these transactions — “got religion.” That is, they implemented underwriting procedures intended to detect and prevent STOLI transactions.
Insurers also began to review previously issued policies for STOLI, and, as a result, a number of suits were filed to rescind such policies. In addition to insurable interest violations, many of these policies were thought to contain false statements, particularly with respect to the insureds’ net worth, which was overstated in order to qualify them for larger face amounts of insurance. Investors’ interest in STOLI policies waned as they realized that such policies contained considerable risk because they could be unenforceable and subject to rescission by the insurer.

Of the estimated 300 – 400 lawsuits filed by insurance companies involving illegally manufactured life insurance policies (often referred to as Stranger-Originated Life Insurance, or STOLI), none were directed at life settled policies, life settlement provider companies, or the property rights of policy owners to sell a lawfully owned policy in a regulated transaction.

Most states regulate life settlements and impose a two-year waiting period.
Manager's operating funds of Life Settlements will be regulated by the financial regulator in the jurisdiction in which they reside. Managers and service providers also operate a form of self-regulation through associations such as the European Life Settlement Association (ELSA) - created to increase levels of transparency and raise standards in the market.

An academic study that showed some of the potential of the life settlement market was conducted in 2002 by the 
"We estimate that life settlements, alone, generate surplus benefits in excess of $240 million annually for life insurance policyholders who have exercised their option to sell their policies at a competitive rate." - 
Another study by Conning & Co. Research, 
A life insurance industry sponsored study by 





In the United States, an 
Although annuities have existed in their present form only for a few decades, the idea of paying out a stream of income to an individual or family dates back to the Roman Empire. The Latin word 
One of the early recorded uses of annuities in the United States was by the 
Annuity contracts in the United States are defined by the 
There are two possible phases for an annuity, one phase in which the customer deposits and accumulates money into an account (the deferral phase), and another phase in which customers receive payments for some period of time (the annuity or income phase). During this latter phase, the insurance company makes income payments that may be set for a stated period of time, such as five years, or continue until the death of the customer(s) (the "annuitant(s)") named in the contract. Annuitization over a lifetime can have a death benefit guarantee over a certain period of time, such as ten years. Annuity contracts with a deferral phase always have an annuity phase and are called deferred annuities. An annuity contract may also be structured so that it has only the annuity phase; such a contract is called an immediate annuity.  Note this is not always the case.

The term "annuity," as used in financial theory, is most closely related to what is today called an 
The overarching characteristic of the immediate annuity is that it is a vehicle for distributing 
When a deferred annuity is annuitized, it works like an immediate annuity from that point on, but with a lower cost basis and thus more of the payment is taxed.

This type of immediate annuity pays the annuitant for a designated number of years (i.e., a period certain) and is used to fund a need that will end when the period is up (for example, it might be used to fund the premiums for a term life insurance policy).  Thus the person may outlive the number of years the annuity will pay.

A life or lifetime immediate annuity is used to provide an income for the life of the annuitant similar to a 
A 
A life annuity, ideally, can reduce the "problem" faced by a person when they don't know how long they will live, and so they don't know the optimal speed at which to spend their savings. Life annuities with payments indexed to the Consumer Price Index might be an acceptable solution to this problem, but there is only a thin market for them in North America.

For an additional expense (either by way of an increase in payments (premium) or a decrease in benefits), an annuity or benefit 
The pure life annuity can have harsh consequences for the annuitant who dies before recovering his or her investment in the contract. Such a situation, called a forfeiture, can be mitigated by the addition of a period-certain feature under which the annuity issuer is required to make annuity payments for at least a certain number of years; if the annuitant outlives the specified period certain, annuity payments continue until the annuitant's death, and if the annuitant dies before the expiration of the period certain, the annuitant's estate or beneficiary is entitled to the remaining payments certain. The tradeoff between the pure life annuity and the life-with-period-certain annuity is that the annuity payment for the latter is smaller. A viable alternative to the life-with-period-certain annuity is to purchase a single-premium life policy that would cover the lost premium in the annuity.

Impaired-life annuities for 
Life annuities are priced based on the probability of the annuitant surviving to receive the payments. 
The second usage for the term 
All varieties of deferred annuities owned by individuals have one thing in common: any increase in account values is not taxed until those gains are withdrawn. This is also known as tax-deferred growth.

A deferred annuity which grows by interest rate earnings alone is called a 
A new category of deferred annuity, called the 
Deferred annuities in the United States have the advantage that taxation of all capital gains and ordinary income is deferred until withdrawn. In theory, such tax-deferred compounding allows more money to be put to work while the savings are accumulating, leading to higher returns. A disadvantage, however, is that when amounts held under a deferred annuity are withdrawn or inherited, the interest/gains are immediately taxed as ordinary income.

A variety of features and guarantees have been developed by insurance companies in order to make annuity products more attractive. These include death and living benefit options, extra credit options, account guarantees, spousal continuation benefits, reduced contingent deferred sales charges (or surrender charges), and various combinations thereof. Each feature or benefit added to a contract will typically be accompanied by an additional expense either directly (billed to client) or indirectly (inside product).

Deferred annuities are usually divided into two different kinds:

There are several types of performance guarantees, and one may often choose them à la carte, with higher risk charges for guarantees that are riskier for the insurance companies.  The first type is a guaranteed minimum death benefit (GMDB), which can be received only if the owner of the annuity contract, or the covered annuitant, dies.

GMDBs come in various flavors, in order of increasing risk to the insurance company:

Insurance companies provide even greater insurance coverage on guaranteed living benefits, which tend to be elective. Unlike death benefits, which the contractholder generally cannot time, living benefits pose significant risk for insurance companies as contractholders will likely exercise these benefits when they are worth the most. Annuities with guaranteed living benefits (GLBs) tend to have high fees commensurate with the additional risks underwritten by the issuing insurer.

Some GLB examples, in no particular order:

Recently, insurance companies developed asset-transfer programs that operate at the contract level or the fund level. In the former, a percentage of client's account value will be transferred to a designated low-risk fund when the contract has poor investment performance. On the fund level, certain investment options have a target volatility built within the fund (usually about 10%) and will re-balance to maintain that target. In both cases, they are stated to help buffer poor investment performance until markets perform better (where they will transition back to normal allocations to catch an upswing). However, there are criticisms of these programs including, but not limited to, often mandating these programs on clients, restricting flexibility of investing, and not catching the upswing of markets fast enough due to the underlying design of such programs.

Be careful in regard to using GLB riders in non-qualified contracts as most of the products in the annuity marketplace today create a 100% taxable income benefit whereas income generated from an immediate annuity in a non-qualified contract would partially be a return of principal and therefore non-taxable.

Some annuities do not have any deferred surrender charges and do not pay the financial professional a commission, although the financial professional may charge a fee for his or her advice. These contracts are called "no-load" variable annuity products and are usually available from a fee-based financial planner or directly from a no-load mutual fund company. Of course various charges are still imposed on these contracts, but they are less than those sold by commissioned brokers. It is important that potential purchasers of annuities, mutual funds, tax-exempt municipal bonds, commodities futures, 
Variable annuities are controversial because many believe the extra fees (i.e., the fees above and beyond those charged for similar retail mutual funds that offer no principal protection or guarantees of any kind) may reduce the rate of return compared to what the investor could make by investing directly in similar investments outside of the variable annuity. A big selling point for variable annuities is the guarantees many have, such as the guarantee that the customer will not lose his or her principal. Critics say that these guarantees are not necessary because over the long term the market has always been positive, while others say that with the uncertainty of the financial markets many investors simply will not invest without guarantees.
In the U.S. 
Since the 
An investor should consider the financial strength of the insurance company that writes annuity contracts. Major insolvencies have occurred at least 62 times since the conspicuous collapse of the 
Insurance company defaults are governed by state law. The laws are, however, broadly similar in most states. Annuity contracts are protected against insurance company insolvency up to a specific dollar limit, often $100,000, but as high as $500,000 in New York 
The state guaranty association is not a government agency, but states usually require insurance companies to belong to it as a condition of being licensed to do business. The guaranty associations of the fifty states are members of a national umbrella association, the 
A difference between guaranty association protection and the protection of bank accounts by the FDIC, credit union accounts by the NCUA, and brokerage accounts by the SIPC, is that it is difficult for consumers to learn about this protection. Usually, state law prohibits insurance agents and companies from using the guaranty association in any advertising and agents are prohibited by statute from using this Web site or the existence of the guaranty association as an inducement to purchase insurance(e.g., 
Deferred annuities, including fixed, fixed indexed and variable, typically pay the advisor or salesperson 1 percent to 10 percent of the amount invested as a commission, with possible trail options of 25 basis points to 1 percent.  Sometimes the advisor can select his payout option, which might be either 7 or 10 percent up front, or 5 percent up front with a 25 basis point trail, or 1 percent to 3 percent up front with a 1 percent trail.  Trail commissions are most common in variable annuities while fixed annuities and fixed indexed annuities typically pay an up front commission.

Some firms allow an investor to pick an annuity share class, which determines the salesperson's commission schedule.  The main variables are the up-front commission and the 
Fixed and Indexed Annuity commissions are paid to the agent by the insurance companies the agent represents. Commissions are not paid by the client (annuitant).

"No-load" variable annuities are available on a direct-to-consumer basis from several no-load 

Insurance
An entity which provides insurance is known as an insurer, insurance company, insurance carrier or 
The insured receives a 
Methods for transferring or distributing risk were practiced by 
Circa 800 BC, the inhabitants of 
Separate insurance contracts (i.e., insurance policies not bundled with loans or other kinds of contracts) were invented in 
Insurance became far more sophisticated in 
Property insurance
At the same time, the first insurance schemes for the 
The first 
It was the world's first 
In the late 19th century "accident insurance" began to become available.
By the late 19th century governments began to initiate national insurance programs against sickness and old age. 
Insurance involves 
Risk which can be insured by private companies typically shares seven common characteristics:
When a company insures an individual entity, there are basic legal requirements and regulations. Several commonly cited legal principles of insurance include:
To "indemnify" means to make whole again, or to be reinstated to the position that one was in, to the extent possible, prior to the happening of a specified event or peril. Accordingly, 
From an insured's standpoint, the result is usually the same: the insurer pays the loss and claims expenses.

If the Insured has a "reimbursement" policy, the insured can be required to pay for a loss and then be "reimbursed" by the insurance carrier for the loss and out of pocket costs including, with the permission of the insurer, claim expenses.
Under a "pay on behalf" policy, the insurance carrier would defend and pay a claim on behalf of the insured who would not be out of pocket for anything. Most modern liability insurance is written on the basis of "pay on behalf" language which enables the insurance carrier to manage and control the claim.

Under an "indemnification" policy, the insurance carrier can generally either "reimburse" or "pay on behalf of", whichever is more beneficial to it and the insured in the claim handling process.

An entity seeking to transfer risk (an individual, corporation, or association of any type, etc.) becomes the 'insured' party once risk is assumed by an 'insurer', the insuring party, by means of a 
When insured parties experience a loss for a specified peril, the coverage entitles the policyholder to make a claim against the insurer for the covered amount of loss as specified by the policy. The fee paid by the insured to the insurer for assuming the risk is called the premium. Insurance premiums from many insureds are used to fund accounts reserved for later payment of claims – in theory for a relatively few claimants – and for 
Policies typically include a number of exclusions, including typically:

Insurance can have various effects on society through the way that it changes who bears the cost of losses and damage. On one hand it can increase fraud; on the other it can help societies and individuals prepare for catastrophes and mitigate the effects of catastrophes on both households and societies.

Insurance can influence the probability of losses through 
According to the study books of The Chartered Insurance Institute, there are variant methods of insurance as follows:

The business model is to collect more in premium and investment income than is paid out in losses, and to also offer a competitive price which consumers will accept. Profit can be reduced to a simple equation:

Insurers make money in two ways:

The most complicated aspect of the insurance business is the 
At the most basic level, initial ratemaking involves looking at the 
Upon termination of a given policy, the amount of premium collected minus the amount paid out in claims is the insurer's 
Insurance companies earn 
In the 
Naturally, the float method is difficult to carry out in an 
Claims and loss handling is the materialized utility of insurance; it is the actual "product" paid for.  Claims may be filed by insureds directly with the insurer or through 
Insurance company claims departments employ a large number of 
The policyholder may hire their own 
Adjusting liability insurance claims is particularly difficult because there is a third party involved, the 
If a claims adjuster suspects under-insurance, the 
In managing the claims handling function, insurers seek to balance the elements of customer satisfaction, administrative handling expenses, and claims overpayment leakages.  As part of this balancing act, 
Insurers will often use 
Any risk that can be quantified can potentially be insured. Specific kinds of risk that may give rise to claims are known as perils. An insurance policy will set out in detail which perils are covered by the policy and which are not. Below are non-exhaustive lists of the many different types of insurance that exist. A single policy that may cover risks in one or more of the categories set out below. For example, 
Business
Auto insurance protects the policyholder against financial loss in the event of an incident involving a vehicle they own, such as in a 
Coverage typically includes:

Gap insurance covers the excess amount on your auto loan in an instance where your insurance company does not cover the entire loan. Depending on the company's specific policies it might or might not cover the deductible as well. This coverage is marketed for those who put low 
Health insurance policies cover the cost of medical treatments. Dental insurance, like medical insurance, protects policyholders for dental costs. In most developed countries, all citizens receive some health coverage from their governments, paid through taxation. In most countries, health insurance is often part of an employer's benefits.

Casualty insurance insures against accidents, not necessarily tied to any specific property. It is a broad spectrum of insurance that a number of other types of insurance could be classified, such as auto, workers compensation, and some liability insurances.

Life insurance provides a monetary benefit to a decedent's family or other designated beneficiary, and may specifically provide for income to an insured person's family, burial, funeral and other final expenses. Life insurance policies often allow the option of having the proceeds paid to the beneficiary either in a lump sum cash payment or an 
Annuities provide a stream of payments and are generally classified as insurance because they are issued by insurance companies, are regulated as insurance, and require the same kinds of actuarial and investment management expertise that life insurance requires. Annuities and 
Certain life insurance contracts accumulate 
In many countries, such as the United States and the UK, the 
In the United States, the tax on interest income on life insurance policies and annuities is generally deferred. However, in some cases the benefit derived from 
Burial insurance is a very old type of life insurance which is paid out upon death to cover final expenses, such as the cost of a 
Property insurance provides protection against risks to property, such as 
Liability insurance is a very broad superset that covers legal claims against the insured. Many types of insurance include an aspect of liability coverage. For example, a homeowner's insurance policy will normally include liability coverage which protects the insured in the event of a claim brought by someone who slips and falls on the property; automobile insurance also includes an aspect of liability insurance that indemnifies against the harm that a crashing car can cause to others' lives, health, or property. The protection offered by a liability insurance policy is twofold: a legal defense in the event of a lawsuit commenced against the policyholder and indemnification (payment on behalf of the insured) with respect to a settlement or court verdict. Liability policies typically cover only the negligence of the insured, and will not apply to results of wilful or intentional acts by the insured.

Often a commercial insured's liability insurance program consists of several layers.  The first layer of insurance generally consists of primary insurance, which provides first dollar indemnity for judgments and settlements up to the limits of liability of the primary policy.  Generally, primary insurance is subject to a deductible and obligates the insured to defend the insured against lawsuits, which is normally accomplished by assigning counsel to defend the insured.  In many instances, a commercial insured may elect to self-insure.  Above the primary insurance or self-insured retention, the insured may have one or more layers of excess insurance to provide coverage additional limits of indemnity protection. There are a variety of types of excess insurance, including "stand-alone" excess policies (policies that contain their own terms, conditions, and exclusions), "follow form" excess insurance (policies that follow the terms of the underlying policy except as specifically provided), and "umbrella" insurance policies (excess insurance that in some circumstances could provide coverage that is broader than the underlying insurance).
Credit insurance repays some or all of a 
Some communities prefer to create virtual insurance amongst themselves by other means than contractual risk transfer, which assigns explicit numerical values to risk. A number of 
In the 
In the United States, the most prevalent form of 
Insurance companies may sell any combination of insurance types, but are often classified into three groups:
General insurance companies can be further divided into these sub categories.

In most countries, life and non-life insurers are subject to different regulatory regimes and different 
Insurance companies are generally classified as either 
Demutualization
Reinsurance
Captive insurance
The types of risk that a captive can underwrite for their parents include property damage, public and product liability, professional indemnity, employee benefits, employers' liability, motor and medical aid expenses. The captive's exposure to such risks may be limited by the use of reinsurance.

Captives are becoming an increasingly important component of the risk management and risk financing strategy of their parent. This can be understood against the following background:

Other possible forms for an insurance company include 
Admitted insurance companies are those in the United States that have been admitted or licensed by the state licensing agency. The insurance they sell is called 
There are also companies known as "insurance consultants". Like a mortgage broker, these companies are paid a fee by the customer to shop around for the best insurance policy amongst many companies. Similar to an insurance consultant, an 'insurance broker' also shops around for the best insurance policy amongst many companies. However, with insurance brokers, the fee is usually paid in the form of commission from the insurer that is selected rather than directly from the client.

Neither insurance consultants nor insurance brokers are insurance companies and no risks are transferred to them in insurance transactions. Third party administrators are companies that perform underwriting and sometimes claims handling services for insurance companies.  These companies often have special expertise that the insurance companies do not have.

The financial stability and strength of an insurance company should be a major consideration when buying an insurance contract. An insurance premium paid currently provides coverage for losses that might arise many years in the future.  For that reason, the viability of the insurance carrier is very important. In recent years, a number of insurance companies have become insolvent, leaving their policyholders with no coverage (or coverage only from a government-backed insurance pool or other arrangement with less attractive payouts for losses). A number of independent rating agencies provide information and rate the financial viability of insurance companies.

Insurance companies are rated by various agencies such as 
Global insurance premiums grew by 2.7% in inflation-adjusted terms in 2010 to $4.3 trillion, climbing above pre-crisis levels. The return to growth and record premiums generated during the year followed two years of decline in real terms. Life insurance premiums increased by 3.2% in 2010 and non-life premiums by 2.1%. While industrialised countries saw an increase in premiums of around 1.4%, insurance markets in emerging economies saw rapid expansion with 11% growth in premium income. The global insurance industry was sufficiently capitalised to withstand the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 and most insurance companies restored their capital to pre-crisis levels by the end of 2010. With the continuation of the gradual recovery of the global economy, it is likely the insurance industry will continue to see growth in premium income both in industrialised countries and emerging markets in 2011.

Advanced economies account for the bulk of global insurance. With premium income of $1.62 trillion, Europe was the most important region in 2010, followed by North America $1.41 trillion and Asia $1.16 trillion. Europe has however seen a decline in premium income during the year in contrast to the growth seen in North America and Asia. The top four countries generated more than a half of premiums. The United States and Japan alone accounted for 40% of world insurance, much higher than their 7% share of the global population. Emerging economies accounted for over 85% of the world's population but only around 15% of premiums. Their markets are however growing at a quicker pace.
In the United States, insurance is regulated by the states under the 
In the 
The 
In India IRDA is insurance regulatory authority. As per the section 4 of IRDA Act 1999, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA), which was constituted by an act of parliament. National Insurance Academy, Pune is apex insurance capacity builder institute promoted with support from Ministry of Finance and by LIC, Life & General Insurance companies.

In 2017, within the framework of the joint project of the 
Insurance is just a risk transfer mechanism wherein the financial burden which may arise due to some fortuitous event is transferred to a bigger entity called an Insurance Company by way of paying premiums. This only reduces the financial burden and not the actual chances of happening of an event. Insurance is a risk for both the insurance company and the insured.  The insurance company understands the risk involved and will perform a 
An insurance company may inadvertently find that its insureds may not be as risk-averse as they might otherwise be (since, by definition, the insured has transferred the risk to the insurer), a concept known as 
For example, life insurance companies may require higher premiums or deny coverage altogether to people who work in hazardous occupations or engage in dangerous sports.  Liability insurance providers do not provide coverage for liability arising from 
Insurance policies can be complex and some policyholders may not understand all the fees and coverages included in a policy. As a result, people may buy policies on unfavorable terms. In response to these issues, many countries have enacted detailed statutory and regulatory regimes governing every aspect of the insurance business, including minimum standards for policies and the ways in which they may be 
For example, most insurance policies in the English language today have been carefully drafted in 
Many institutional insurance purchasers buy insurance through an insurance broker. While on the surface it appears the broker represents the buyer (not the insurance company), and typically counsels the buyer on appropriate coverage and policy limitations, in the vast majority of cases a broker's compensation comes in the form of a commission as a percentage of the insurance premium, creating a conflict of interest in that the broker's financial interest is tilted towards encouraging an insured to purchase more insurance than might be necessary at a higher price. A broker generally holds contracts with many insurers, thereby allowing the broker to "shop" the 
Insurance may also be purchased through an agent. A tied agent, working exclusively with one insurer, represents the insurance company from whom the policyholder buys (while a free agent sells policies of various insurance companies). Just as there is a potential conflict of interest with a broker, an agent has a different type of conflict. Because agents work directly for the insurance company, if there is a claim the agent may advise the client to the benefit of the insurance company. Agents generally cannot offer as broad a range of selection compared to an insurance broker.

An independent insurance consultant advises insureds on a fee-for-service retainer, similar to an attorney, and thus offers completely independent advice, free of the financial conflict of interest of brokers or agents. However, such a consultant must still work through brokers or agents in order to secure coverage for their clients.

In the United States, economists and consumer advocates generally consider insurance to be worthwhile for low-probability, catastrophic losses, but not for high-probability, small losses. Because of this, consumers are advised to select high 
Redlining
In July 2007, The 
All states have provisions in their rate regulation laws or in their fair trade practice acts that prohibit unfair discrimination, often called redlining, in setting rates and making insurance available.
In determining premiums and premium rate structures, insurers consider quantifiable factors, including location, 
An insurance underwriter's job is to evaluate a given risk as to the likelihood that a loss will occur. Any factor that causes a greater likelihood of loss should theoretically be charged a higher rate. This basic principle of insurance must be followed if insurance companies are to remain solvent.
New assurance products can now be protected from copying with a 
A recent example of a new insurance product that is patented is 
Many independent inventors are in favor of patenting new insurance products since it gives them protection from big companies when they bring their new insurance products to market. Independent inventors account for 70% of the new U.S. patent applications in this area.

Many insurance executives are opposed to patenting insurance products because it creates a new risk for them. 
There are currently about 150 new patent applications on insurance inventions filed per year in the United States. The rate at which patents have been issued has steadily risen from 15 in 2002 to 44 in 2006.
The first insurance patent to be granted was 
Insurance on demand (also IoD) is an insurance service that provides clients with insurance protection when they need, i.e. only episodic rather than on 
Certain insurance products and practices have been described as 
Muslim scholars have varying opinions about life insurance. Life insurance policies that earn interest (or guaranteed bonus/NAV) are generally considered to be a form of 
Some Christians believe insurance represents a lack of faith
Country-specific articles:


A 
REITs can be 
REITs were created in the United States after President 
Since then, more than 30 countries around the world have established REIT regimes, with more countries in the works. The spread of the REIT approach to real estate investment around the world has also increased awareness and acceptance of investing in global real estate securities.
A comprehensive index for the REIT and global listed property market is the FTSE EPRA/Nareit Global Real Estate Index Series,
As of December 2017, the global index included 477 stock exchange listed real estate companies from 35 countries representing an 
Around the time of their creation in 1960, the first REITs primarily consisted of mortgage companies. The industry experienced significant expansion in the late 1960s and early 1970s. The growth primarily resulted from the increased use of mREITs in 
The 
Retail REIT Taubman Centers Inc. launched the modern era of REITs in 1992 with its creation of the UPREIT. In an UPREIT, the parties of an existing partnership and a REIT become partners in a new "operating partnership". The REIT typically is the general partner and the majority owner of the operating partnership units, and the partners who contributed properties have the right to exchange their operating partnership units for REIT shares or cash. The industry struggled beginning in 2007 as the global financial crisis kicked in. In response to the global credit crisis, listed REITs responded by 
REIT dividends have a 100 percent payout ratio for all income at lower rates. This inhibits internal growth of the REIT and causes investors to not tolerate low or non-existent yields as the interest rates are more sensitive.
The first REIT in 
REITs have been in existence in 
In 2007, the 
By October 2015 there were 33 South African REITS and three non-South African REITs listed on the 
The REIT concept was launched in Australia in 1971. General Property Trust was the first 
REITs have shown numerous benefits over direct investment including lower tax rates and increased liquidity. There are now more than 70 A-REITs listed on the ASX, with market capitalization in excess of A$100bn.
Australia is also receiving growing recognition as having the world's largest REITs market
outside the United States. More than 12 percent of global listed property trusts can be found on the ASX.
REITs have been in existence in 
As of July 2012 there are nine REITs listed with a total market capitalization of approximately €15 billion which amounts to almost 2% of the total global REIT market capitalization. Two out of the nine listed REITs are also included in the 
As of August 2014, 
China is one of countries that motivated and interested to approve creation of real estate investment trusts. 

Japan
Since the burst of the 
A J-REIT (a listed real estate investment trust) is strictly regulated under the Law concerning Investment Trusts and Investment Companies (LITIC) and established as an investment company under the LITIC.

In addition to REITs, Japanese law also provides for a parallel system of 
The Bursa Malaysia has 18 REIT listed with five Islamic REITS (shariah compliant – according to Islamic investment compliance).

The 
The Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan expected that about six REITs would be licensed within the first year, mainly large asset management companies. Pakistan has seen an outflow of investments by foreign real estate development companies, mostly based in Malaysia and Dubai.
SECP has issued licenses to four parties namely, Arif Habib REIT Management Company, 
REITs in the 
Commonly referred to as S-REITs, there are 31 REITs listed on the 
S-REITs are regulated as Collective Investment Schemes under the 
Some of the regulations that S-REITs have to adhere to includes:
S-REITs benefit from tax advantaged status where the tax is payable only at the investor level and not at the REITs level. In addition to REITs, there are ten Business Trusts ("BTs") (similar to REITs but may hold assets that are not conventional and are not subjected to stringent rules as compared to SREITs), and six Stapled Instruments (composed of a stapled Business Trust Unit and a REIT unit), which are listed on the Singapore Exchange. The total market capitalisation of the listed Trust on Singapore Exchange approximate SGD 100 billion (as at 30 Nov 17).

The 
The REIT legislation was introduced by 
The issue is that DIFC domiciled REITs cannot acquire non-Freezone assets within the Emirate of Dubai.  The only federally approved Freezone within the UAE is the DIFC itself so therefore any properties outside this zone are purchasable by local Gulf (GCC) passport holders only. However, through a collaboration with local authorities, Emirates REIT has been able to establish a platform enabling it to purchase properties anywhere in Dubai given a minimum of 51% of local ownership of its shares. This allows the company to diversify its portfolio with an efficient revenue generating mix of properties in the prime locations of Dubai. Emirates REIT is the first REIT established within the United Arab Emirates. It is also the first REIT listed on NASDAQ Dubai and one of the five Shari'a compliant REIT in the world with a focus on Income-producing assets.

Emirates REIT has a portfolio of over US$575.3 million consisting of a total of seven properties primarily focus on commercial and office space as of Dec 2014. It has had substantial growth over the last four years.

Commonly referred to as Real Estate Investment Fund, the regulations were launched in July 2006 by the Saudi Capital Market Authority, The regulation did not allow the funds to be traded in the stock market and force all funds to be structured by a licensed Investment companies by CMA with a presence of a real estate developer and some other key persons.
Over the past few years
Bernheim Comofi (now 
REITs were introduced in 
Finnish
Qualifications
As of 2018
The French acronyms for REIT are 
Germany
A law concerning G-REITs was enacted 1 June 2007, effective 
The German public real-estate sector accounts for 0.21% of the total global REIT market capitalization. Three out of the four G-REITS are represented in the 
The 2013 Finance Act contained provisions for creating REIT structures in 
SOCIMI (Sociedad cotizada de Capital Inmobiliario).

The legislation laying out the rules for REITs in the 
British REITs have to distribute 90% of their income to investors. They must be a close-ended 
To support the introduction of REITs in the UK, several commercial property and financial-services companies formed the REITs and Quoted Property Group. Other key bodies involved include the 
Doug Naismith, managing director of European Personal Investments for Fidelity International, said
The Finance Act 2012 brought five main changes to the REIT regime in the UK: 

Boyd Carson of Sapphire Capital Partners LLP commented that "the most important of these advantages is the ability for REITs to be listed on the AIM and the abolition of the 2% entry charge to the regime is also a significant step forward."
Canadian
Mexico
The first Mexican REIT was launched in 2011 and is called FIBRA UNO.
The law providing for REITs was enacted by the U.S. Congress in 1960.
From 2008 to 2011, REITs faced challenges from both a slowing 
For the five-year period ending Dec. 31, 2017, all stock exchange listed REITs posted total returns of 60.29%, with compound annual total returns of 9.90%. Stock exchange listed equity REITs had total returns of 59.85% during that same period, with compound annual total returns of 9.83%. The S&P 500 had total returns of 108.14% during that same period, with compound annual total returns of 15.79%. There are more than 200 public REITs listed on exchanges in the United States.

Under 
In the United States, a REIT is a company that owns, and in most cases operates, income-producing real estate. Some REITs finance real estate. To be a REIT, a company must distribute at least 90 percent of its taxable income to shareholders annually in the form of dividends.
To qualify as a REIT under U.S. tax rules, a company must:

Because of their access to corporate-level debt and equity that typical real estate owners cannot access, REITs have a favorable capital structure. They are able to use this capital to finance tenant improvement costs and leasing commissions that less capitalized owners cannot afford.
REITs were introduced in 

An 
In the 1970s, "less developed countries" (LDCs) was the common term for markets that were less "developed" (by objective or subjective measures) than the developed countries such as the United States, Japan, and those in Western Europe. These markets were supposed to provide greater potential for profit but also more risk from various factors like patent infringement. This term was replaced by 
Originally coined in 1981 by then 
The research on emerging markets is diffused within 
In 2009, Dr. Kvint published this definition: "Emerging market country is a society transitioning from a dictatorship to a free-market-oriented-economy, with increasing economic freedom, gradual integration with the Global Marketplace and with other members of the GEM (Global Emerging Market), an expanding middle class, improving standards of living, social stability and tolerance, as well as an increase in cooperation with multilateral institutions"
More critical scholars have also studied key emerging markets like Mexico and Turkey. Thomas Marois (2012, 2) argues that financial imperatives have become much more significant and has developed the idea of 'emerging finance capitalism' - an era wherein the collective interests of financial capital principally shape the logical options and choices of government and state elites over and above those of labor and popular classes.
Julien Vercueil recently proposed an pragmatic definition of the "emerging economies", as distinguished from "emerging markets" coined by an approach heavily influenced by financial criteria. According to his definition, an emerging economy displays the following characteristics:
At the beginning of the 2010s, more than 50 countries, representing 60% of the world's population and 45% of its GDP, matched these criteria.
The term "rapidly developing economies" is being used to denote emerging markets such as The 
In recent years, new terms have emerged to describe the largest 
Lists of emerging (or developed) markets vary; guides may be found in such investment information sources as 
In an 
The 10 
Newly industrialized countries
Individual investors can invest in emerging markets by buying into emerging markets or global funds. If they want to pick single stocks or make their own bets they can do it either through ADRs (American depositor Receipts - stocks of foreign companies that trade on US stock exchanges) or through exchange traded funds (exchange traded funds or ETFs hold basket of stocks). The exchange traded funds can be focused on a particular country (e.g., China, India) or region (e.g., Asia-Pacific, Latin America).

Various sources list countries as "emerging economies" as indicated by the table below.

A few countries appear in every list (BRICS, Mexico, Turkey). Indonesia and Turkey are categorized with Mexico and Nigeria as part of the 
In November 2010, 
As of March 2014, the groupings are as follows:

EAGLEs
NEST
Other emerging markets
The 
For country inclusion, a country’s GNI per capita must be below the Index Income Ceiling (IIC) for three consecutive years to be eligible for inclusion to the EMBI Global. J.P. Morgan defines the Index Income Ceiling (IIC) as the GNI per capita level that is adjusted every year by the growth rate of the World GNI per capita, Atlas method (current US$), provided by the World Bank annually. An existing country may be considered for removal from the index if its GNI per capita is above the Index Income Ceiling (IIC) for three consecutive years as well as the country’s long term foreign currency sovereign credit rating (the available ratings from all three agencies: S&P, Moody’s & Fitch) is A-/A3/A- (inclusive) or above for three consecutive years.
J.P. Morgan has introduced what is called an "Index Income Ceiling" (IIC), defined as the income level that is adjusted every year by the growth rate of the World GNI per capita, provided by the World Bank as "GNI per capita, Atlas method (current US$) annually". Once a country has GNI per capita below or above the IIC level for three consecutive years, the country eligibility will be determined.
The 
"Global Growth Generators", or 
Estimating the demand for products or services in emerging markets and developing economies can be complex and challenging for managers. These countries have unique commercial environments and may be limited in terms of reliable data, market research firms, and trained interviewers. Consumers in some of these countries may consider surveys an invasion of privacy.
The following table lists the 25 largest emerging economies by GDP (nominal) and GDP (PPP) in their respective peak year. Members of the 



A 
A 
Derivatives such as futures contracts, 
Exchange-traded funds
Commodity-based money and commodity markets in a crude early form are believed to have originated in 
Early civilizations variously used pigs, rare seashells, or other items as 
Gold
Beginning in the late 10th century, commodity markets grew as a mechanism for allocating goods, labor, land and capital across Europe. Between the late 11th and the late 13th century, English urbanization, regional specialization, expanded and improved infrastructure, the increased use of coinage and the proliferation of markets and fairs were evidence of commercialization.
The 
In 1864, in the United States, wheat, corn, cattle, and pigs were widely traded using standard instruments on the 
Through the 19th century "the exchanges became effective spokesmen for, and innovators of, improvements in transportation, warehousing, and financing, which paved the way to expanded interstate and international trade."
Reputation and clearing became central concerns, and states that could handle them most effectively developed powerful financial centers.
In 1934, the US 
A 
Cash commodities or "actuals" refer to the physical goods—e.g., wheat, corn, soybeans, crude oil, gold, silver—that someone is buying/selling/trading as distinguished from derivatives.
In a 
In traditional 
By 2011, the 
The robust growth of 
In 2012, as emerging-market economies slowed down, commodity prices peaked and started to decline. From 2005 through 2013, energy and metals' 
The price of gold bullion fell dramatically on 12 April 2013 and analysts frantically sought explanations. Rumors spread that the 
The earliest commodity exchange-traded fund (ETFs), such as 
A 
US 
Similar specifications apply for cotton, orange juice, cocoa, sugar, wheat, corn, barley, 
Standardization has also occurred technologically, as the use of the FIX Protocol by commodities exchanges has allowed trade messages to be sent, received and processed in the same format as stocks or equities. This process began in 2001 when the Chicago Mercantile Exchange launched a FIX-compliant interface that was adopted by commodity exchanges around the world.
Derivatives
A 
Forward contracts for example, were used for rice in seventeenth century Japan.

Futures
Agricultural futures contracts are the oldest, in use in the United States for more than 170 years.
A 
Exchange-traded commodity is a term used for commodity 
They were introduced in 2003.

At first only professional institutional investors had access, but online exchanges opened some ETC markets to almost anyone. ETCs were introduced partly in response to the tight supply of commodities in 2000, combined with record low inventories and increasing demand from emerging markets such as China and India.
Prior to the introduction of ETCs, by the 1990s ETFs pioneered by 
Gold was the first commodity to be securitised through an 
Generally, commodity ETFs are index funds tracking non-security 
The earliest commodity ETFs, such as 
Commodity ETFs trade provide exposure to an increasing range of commodities and commodity indices, including energy, metals, 
ETCs in China and India gained in importance due to those countries' emergence as commodities consumers and producers. China accounted for more than 60% of exchange-traded commodities in 2009, up from 40% the previous year. The global volume of ETCs increased by a 20% in 2010, and 50% since 2008, to around 2.5 billion million contracts.
Over-the-counter
Between 2007 and 2010, global physical exports of commodities fell by 2%, while the outstanding value of OTC commodities derivatives declined by two-thirds as investors reduced risk following a five-fold increase in the previous three years.

Money under management more than doubled between 2008 and 2010 to nearly $380 billion. Inflows into the sector totaled over $60 billion in 2010, the second highest year on record, down from $72 billion the previous year. The bulk of funds went into precious metals and energy products. The growth in prices of many commodities in 2010 contributed to the increase in the value of commodities funds under management.
A commodity 
Commodity CFDs are transacted worldwide (apart from the US) through regulated brokers. CFD investors can speculate on the price of a commodity moving higher (going long the CFD) or lower (going short the CFD). CFD investors do not actually own the commodity. Instead, they enter into a contract with a broker to capture the difference between the price of the commodity at the time that they transact the CFD and the price at the time they choose to exit. CFDs typically require the investor to put up margin of about 3-5% of the price of the underlying commodity contract.

For example;
To buy 20 long CFDs on 3% margin, you would need $3,630 in your account ($60.50 [long price] x 20 [number of contracts] x 100 [number of barrels in a standard contract] x 0.03 [margin percent]). You would then “control” $121,000 worth of oil for your $3,630.

That afternoon, you notice the price is up to $62.50 to $62.75, so you exit the trade, which now has a value of $125,500. Your profit would be approximately $4,500 on the deal. Of course, had the market moved against you, the leverage can have the opposite impact and losses can be significant.

A commodities exchange is an 
Source: 
Energy commodities include 
For many years, 
From April through October 2012, Brent futures contracts exceeded those for WTI, the longest streak since at least 1995.
Crude oil can be light or 
Oil and gasoline are traded in units of 1,000 barrels (42,000 US gallons). WTI crude oil is traded through 
Natural gas is traded through NYMEX in units of 10,000 mmBTU with the trading symbol of NG. 
Purified terephthalic acid
Precious metals
According to the 
Industrial metals are sold by the 
Iron ore has been the latest addition to industrial metal derivatives. Deutsche Bank first began offering iron ore swaps in 2008, other banks quickly followed. Since then the size of the market has more than doubled each year between 2008 and 2012.
Agricultural commodities include grains, food and fiber as well as livestock and meat, various regulatory bodies define agricultural products.
On 21 July 2010, 
In February 2013, 
In 1900, corn acreage was double that of wheat in the United States. But from the 1930s through the 1970s soybean acreage surpassed corn. Early in the 1970s grain and soybean prices, which had been relatively stable, "soared to levels that were unimaginable at the time". There were a number of factors affecting prices including the "surge in crude oil prices caused by the Arab Oil Embargo in October 1973 (US inflation reached 11% in 1975)".
As of 2012, diamond was not traded as a commodity. Institutional investors were repelled by campaign against "
According to 
Rubber trades on the 
In the United States, the principal regulator of commodity and futures markets is the 
Dodd–Frank was enacted in response to the 2008 financial crisis. It called for "strong measures to limit speculation in agricultural commodities" calling upon the CFTC to further limit positions and to regulate over-the-counter trades.
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive
The 
The EP voted in favor of stronger regulation of commodity derivative markets in September 2012 to "end abusive speculation in commodity markets" that were "driving global food prices increases and price volatility". In July 2012, "food prices globally soared by 10 percent" (
Software for managing trading systems has been available for several decades in various configurations. This includes 

An 
In the 1970s, "less developed countries" (LDCs) was the common term for markets that were less "developed" (by objective or subjective measures) than the developed countries such as the United States, Japan, and those in Western Europe. These markets were supposed to provide greater potential for profit but also more risk from various factors like patent infringement. This term was replaced by 
Originally coined in 1981 by then 
The research on emerging markets is diffused within 
In 2009, Dr. Kvint published this definition: "Emerging market country is a society transitioning from a dictatorship to a free-market-oriented-economy, with increasing economic freedom, gradual integration with the Global Marketplace and with other members of the GEM (Global Emerging Market), an expanding middle class, improving standards of living, social stability and tolerance, as well as an increase in cooperation with multilateral institutions"
More critical scholars have also studied key emerging markets like Mexico and Turkey. Thomas Marois (2012, 2) argues that financial imperatives have become much more significant and has developed the idea of 'emerging finance capitalism' - an era wherein the collective interests of financial capital principally shape the logical options and choices of government and state elites over and above those of labor and popular classes.
Julien Vercueil recently proposed an pragmatic definition of the "emerging economies", as distinguished from "emerging markets" coined by an approach heavily influenced by financial criteria. According to his definition, an emerging economy displays the following characteristics:
At the beginning of the 2010s, more than 50 countries, representing 60% of the world's population and 45% of its GDP, matched these criteria.
The term "rapidly developing economies" is being used to denote emerging markets such as The 
In recent years, new terms have emerged to describe the largest 
Lists of emerging (or developed) markets vary; guides may be found in such investment information sources as 
In an 
The 10 
Newly industrialized countries
Individual investors can invest in emerging markets by buying into emerging markets or global funds. If they want to pick single stocks or make their own bets they can do it either through ADRs (American depositor Receipts - stocks of foreign companies that trade on US stock exchanges) or through exchange traded funds (exchange traded funds or ETFs hold basket of stocks). The exchange traded funds can be focused on a particular country (e.g., China, India) or region (e.g., Asia-Pacific, Latin America).

Various sources list countries as "emerging economies" as indicated by the table below.

A few countries appear in every list (BRICS, Mexico, Turkey). Indonesia and Turkey are categorized with Mexico and Nigeria as part of the 
In November 2010, 
As of March 2014, the groupings are as follows:

EAGLEs
NEST
Other emerging markets
The 
For country inclusion, a country’s GNI per capita must be below the Index Income Ceiling (IIC) for three consecutive years to be eligible for inclusion to the EMBI Global. J.P. Morgan defines the Index Income Ceiling (IIC) as the GNI per capita level that is adjusted every year by the growth rate of the World GNI per capita, Atlas method (current US$), provided by the World Bank annually. An existing country may be considered for removal from the index if its GNI per capita is above the Index Income Ceiling (IIC) for three consecutive years as well as the country’s long term foreign currency sovereign credit rating (the available ratings from all three agencies: S&P, Moody’s & Fitch) is A-/A3/A- (inclusive) or above for three consecutive years.
J.P. Morgan has introduced what is called an "Index Income Ceiling" (IIC), defined as the income level that is adjusted every year by the growth rate of the World GNI per capita, provided by the World Bank as "GNI per capita, Atlas method (current US$) annually". Once a country has GNI per capita below or above the IIC level for three consecutive years, the country eligibility will be determined.
The 
"Global Growth Generators", or 
Estimating the demand for products or services in emerging markets and developing economies can be complex and challenging for managers. These countries have unique commercial environments and may be limited in terms of reliable data, market research firms, and trained interviewers. Consumers in some of these countries may consider surveys an invasion of privacy.
The following table lists the 25 largest emerging economies by GDP (nominal) and GDP (PPP) in their respective peak year. Members of the 

In 
Convertible bonds are most often issued by companies with a low credit rating and high growth potential.  Convertible bonds are also considered 
From the issuer's perspective, the key benefit of raising money by selling convertible bonds is a reduced cash 
Convertible notes are also a frequent vehicle for 
Underwriters have been quite innovative and provided several variations of the initial convertible structure. Although no formal classification exists in the financial market it is possible to segment the convertible universe into the following sub-types:

Any convertible bond structure, on top of its type, would bear a certain range of additional features as defined in its issuance prospectus:

Convertibles could bear other more technical features depending on the issuer needs:

Due to their relative complexity, convertible bond investors could refer to the following terms while describing convertible bonds:

The global convertible bond market is relatively small, with about 400 bn USD (as of Jan 2013, excluding synthetics), as a comparison the straight corporate bond market would be about 14,000 bn USD. Among those 400 bn, about 320 bn USD are "Vanilla" convertible bonds, the largest sub-segment of the asset class.

Convertibles are not spread equally and some slight differences exist between the different regional markets:

Convertible bond investors get split into two broad categories: Hedged and Long-only investors.

The splits between those investors differ across the regions: In 2013, the American region was dominated by Hedged Investors (about 60%) while EMEA was dominated by Long-Only investors (about 70%). Globally the split is about balanced between the two categories.

In theory, the 
The 3 main stages of convertible bond behaviour are:

In-the-money CB's are considered as being within 
From a valuation perspective, a convertible bond consists of two assets:  a 
Using the market price of the convertible, one can determine the implied volatility (using the assumed spread) or implied spread (using the assumed volatility).

This volatility/credit dichotomy is the standard practice for valuing convertibles.  What makes convertibles so interesting is that, except in the case of exchangeables (see above), one cannot entirely separate the volatility from the credit.  Higher volatility (a good thing) tends to accompany weaker credit (bad). In the case of exchangeables, the credit quality of the issuer may be decoupled from the volatility of the underlying shares.  The true artists of convertibles and exchangeables are the people who know how to play this balancing act.

A simple method for calculating the value of a convertible involves calculating the present value of future 
Since 1991–92, most market-makers in Europe have employed binomial models to evaluate convertibles. Models were available from 
Convertible bonds are mainly issued by start-up or small companies. The chance of default or large movement in either direction is much higher than well-established firms. Investors should have a keen awareness of significant credit risk and price swing behavior associated with convertible bonds.  Consequently, Valuation models need to capture credit risk and handle potential price jump.

In consequence, since 
Source: 
[1]

A 
Regulated in the United States under the 
Money market funds seek to limit exposure to losses due to 
Unlike most other financial instruments, money market funds seek to maintain a stable value of $1 per share. Funds are able to pay dividends to investors.
Securities
In 1971, 
Money market funds in the United States created a solution to the limitations of 
In the 1990s, bank interest rates in 
Money market funds in Europe have always had much lower levels of investments capital than in the United States or Japan. Regulations in the 
Money market funds seek a stable 
Breaking the buck has rarely happened. Up to the 
It is important to note that, while money market funds are typically managed in a fairly safe manner, there would have been many more failures over this period if the companies offering the money market funds had not stepped in when necessary to support their fund (by way of infusing capital to reimburse security losses) and avoid having the funds break the buck.  This was done because the expected cost to the business from allowing the fund value to drop—in lost customers and reputation—was greater than the amount needed to bail it out.
The first money market mutual fund to break the buck was First Multifund for Daily Income (FMDI) in 1978, liquidating and restating NAV at 94 cents per share.  An argument has been made that FMDI was not technically a money market fund as at the time of liquidation the average maturity of securities in its portfolio exceeded two years.
The Community Bankers US Government Fund broke the buck in 1994, paying investors 96 cents per share. This was only the second failure in the then 23-year history of money funds and there were no further failures for 14 years. The fund had invested a large percentage of its assets into adjustable rate securities. As interest rates increased, these floating rate securities lost value. This fund was an 
No further failures occurred until September 2008, a month that saw tumultuous events for money funds. However, as noted above, other failures were only averted by infusions of capital from the fund sponsors.
Money market funds increasingly became important to the wholesale money market leading up to the crisis. Their purchases of 
The week of September 15, 2008, to September 19, 2008, was very turbulent for money funds and a key part of financial markets seizing up.
On Monday, September 15, 2008, 
Continuing 
In response, on Friday, September 19, 2008, the 
The crisis, which eventually became the catalyst for the 
The drop in demand resulted in a "buyers strike", as money funds could not (because of redemptions) or would not (because of fear of redemptions) buy commercial paper, driving yields up dramatically: from around 2% the previous week to 8%,
This is a bank run in the sense that there is a 
An earlier crisis occurred in 2007–2008, where the demand for 
The 
At the end of 2011, there were 632 money market funds in operation,
In the United States, the fund industry and its largest trade organization, the Investment Company Institute, generally categorize money funds into the type of investment strategy: Prime, Treasury or Tax-exempt as well as distribution channel/investor: Institutional or Retail.

A fund that invests generally in variable-rate debt and commercial paper of corporations and securities of the US government and agencies. Can be considered of any money fund that is not a Treasury or Tax-exempt fund.

A Government money fund (as of the SEC's July 24, 2014 rule release) is one that invests at least 99.5% of its total assets in cash, government securities, and/or repurchase agreements that are “collateralized fully” (i.e., collateralized by cash or government securities). A Treasury fund is a type of government money fund that invests in US Treasury Bills, Bonds and Notes.

The fund invests primarily in obligations of state and local jurisdictions ("municipal securities") generally exempt from U.S. Federal Income Tax (and to some extent state income taxes).

Institutional money funds are high minimum investment, low expense share classes that are marketed to corporations, governments, or fiduciaries. They are often set up so that money is swept to them overnight from a company's main operating accounts. Large national chains often have many accounts with banks all across the country, but electronically pull a majority of funds on deposit with them to a concentrated money market fund.

Retail money funds are offered primarily to individuals. Retail money market funds hold roughly 33% of all money market fund assets.

Fund yields are typically somewhat higher than bank 
SEC rule amendments released July 24, 2014, have 'improved' the definition of a Retail money fund to be one that has policies and procedures reasonably designed to limit its shareholders to natural persons.

Recent total net assets for the U.S. Fund industry are as follows: total net assets $2.6 trillion: $1.4 trillion in Prime money funds, $907 billion in Treasury money funds, $257 billion in Tax-exempt. Total Institutional assets outweigh Retail by roughly 2:1.
The largest institutional money fund is the 
The largest money market mutual fund is 
Banks in the United States offer savings and money market 
Ultrashort bond funds are mutual funds, similar to money market funds, that, as the name implies, invest in bonds with extremely short maturities. Unlike money market funds, however, there are no restrictions on the quality of the investments they hold. Instead, ultrashort bond funds typically invest in riskier securities in order to increase their return. Since these high-risk securities can experience large swings in price or even default, ultrashort bond funds, unlike money market funds, do not seek to maintain a stable $1.00 NAV and may lose money or dip below the $1.00 mark in the short term.
Enhanced cash funds
Enhanced cash funds will typically invest some of their portfolio in the same assets as money market funds, but others in riskier, higher yielding, less liquid assets such as:
In general, the NAV will stay close to $1, but is expected to fluctuate above and below, and will break the buck more often.
The purpose of enhanced cash funds is not to replace money markets, but to fit in the continuum between cash and bonds – to provide a higher yielding investment for more permanent cash. That is, within one's 
Enhanced cash funds were developed due to low spreads in traditional cash equivalents.
There are also funds which are billed as "money market funds", but are not 2a-7 funds (do not meet the requirements of the rule).
A deconstruction of the September 2008 events around money market funds, and the resulting fear, panic, contagion, classic 
It has long been understood that regulation around the extension of credit requires substantial levels of integrity throughout the system. To the extent regulation can help insure that base levels of integrity persist throughout the chain, from borrower to lender, and it curtails the overall extension of credit to reasonable levels, episodic financial crisis may be averted.

In the 1970s, money market funds began disintermediating banks from their classic interposition between savers and borrowers. The funds provided a more direct link, with less overhead. Large banks are regulated by the 
From the outset, money market funds fell under the jurisdiction of the SEC as they appeared to be more like 
To many retail investors, money market funds are confusingly similar to traditional bank demand deposits. Virtually all large money market funds offer check writing, ACH transfers, wiring of funds, associated debit and credit cards, detailed monthly statements of all cash transactions, copies of canceled checks, etc. This makes it appear that 
To illustrate the various blending and blurring of functions between classic banking and investing activities at money market funds, a simplified example will help. Imagine only retail "depositors" on one end, and S&P 500 corporations borrowing through the commercial paper market on the other. The depositors assume:

After 10–20 years of stability the “depositors” here assume safety, and move all cash to money markets, enjoying the higher interest rates.

On the borrowing end, after 10–20 years, the S&P 500 corporations become extremely accustomed to obtaining funds via these money markets, which are very stable. Initially, perhaps they only borrowed in these markets for a highly seasonal cash needs, being a net borrower for only say 90 days per year. They would borrow here as they experienced their deepest cash needs over an operating cycle to temporarily finance short-term build ups in inventory and receivables. Or, they moved to this funding market from a former bank revolving line of credit, that was guaranteed to be available to them as they needed it, but had to be cleaned up to a zero balance for at least 60 days out of the year. In these situations the corporations had sufficient other equity and debt financing for all of their regular capital needs. They were however dependent on these sources to be available to them, as needed, on an immediate daily basis.

Over time, money market fund "depositors" felt more and more secure, and not really at risk. Likewise, on the other end, corporations saw the attractive interest rates and incredibly easy ability to constantly roll over short term commercial paper. Using rollovers they then funded longer and longer term obligations via the money markets. This expands credit. It’s also over time clearly 
In the wake of the crisis two solutions have been proposed. One, repeatedly supported over the long term by the GAO and others is to consolidate the U.S. financial industry regulators. A step along this line has been the creation of the 
A second solution, more focused on money market funds directly, is to re-regulate them to address the common misunderstandings, and to ensure that money market "depositors", who enjoy greater interest rates, thoroughly understand the actual risk they are undertaking. These risks include substantial interconnectedness between and among money market participants, and various other substantial 
One solution is to report to money market “depositors” the actual, floating net asset value. This disclosure has come under strong opposition by 
The SEC would normally be the regulator to address the risks to investors taken by money market funds, however to date the SEC has been internally politically gridlocked. The SEC is controlled by five commissioners, no more than three of which may be the same political party. They are also strongly enmeshed with the current mutual fund industry, and are largely divorced from traditional banking industry regulation. As such, the SEC is not concerned over overall credit extension, money supply, or bringing 
As the SEC was gridlocked, the 
The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued final rules that are designed to address money funds’ susceptibility to heavy redemptions in times of stress, improve their ability to manage and mitigate potential contagion from such redemptions, and increase the transparency of their risks, while preserving, as much as possible, their benefits.

There are several key components:

Floating NAV required of institutional non-government money funds
The SEC is removing the valuation exemption that permitted these funds (whose investors historically have made the heaviest redemptions in times of stress) to maintain a stable NAV, i.e., they will have to transact sales and redemptions as a market value-based or "floating" NAV, rounded to the fourth decimal place (e.g., $1.0000).

Fees and gates
The SEC is giving money fund boards of directors the discretion whether to impose a liquidity fee if a fund’s weekly liquidity level falls below the required regulatory threshold, and/or to suspend redemptions temporarily, i.e., to "gate" funds, under the same circumstances. These amendments will require all non-government money funds to impose a liquidity fee if the fund’s weekly liquidity level falls below a designated threshold, unless the fund’s board determines that imposing such a fee is not in the best interests of the fund.

Other provisions
In addition, the SEC is adopting amendments designed to make money market funds more resilient by increasing the diversification of their portfolios, enhancing their 
In parallel with the US Reform, the EU completed drafting of a similar regulation for the money market fund product.

On 30th June 2017, Regulation (EU) 2017/1131 for money market funds

Although the starting products were similar, there are now considerable differences between US and EU MMFs. Whilst EU MMF investors mostly moved to successor fund types, investors in US MMFs undertook a huge and persisting switch from Prime into Government MMF. 

The EU MMF Regulation does not make any reference to either fund or portfolio external credit rating requirements. Throughout the transition EU MMFs overwhelmingly retained their existing ratings, and the credit rating agencies have confirmed their commitment to the MMF-specific rating criteria they each maintain.

A major difference in scope is that, on a like-for-like basis, US MMFs may be compared only to EU short-term MMFs.


Distressed securities
The deliberate investment in distressed securities as a strategy while potentially lucrative has a significant levels of risk as the securities may become worthless.  To do so requires significant levels of resources and expertise to analyze each instrument and assess its position in an issuer's capital structure along with the likelihood of ultimate recovery.
In 2012, 
The market developed for distressed securities as the number of large public companies in financial distress increased in the 1980s and early 1990s.
The distressed securities investment strategy exploits the fact many investors are unable to hold securities that are below 
Some investors have deliberately used distressed debt as an 
Investors in distressed securities often try to 
While there is no precise definition, 
By 2006, the increased popularity in distressed debt 
When companies enter a period of 
The 
Typically, the investors in distressed securities must make an assessment not only of the issuer's ability to improve its operations, but also whether or not the restructuring process (which frequently requires court supervision) will benefit one class of securities more than another.

In 2003, Seveq observed that the emergence of the secondary debt market led to a "modern sovereign debt litigation" and the creation of an industry of "professional suers of foreign states".
In a 2010 article, Blackman and Mukhi examined a series of litigations employed by distressed funds investors in their lawsuits against defaulted sovereign states.
While private debtors have the resource of bankruptcy protection, sovereign states do not.
According to the 
In 1999, the US firm Donegal International purchased $40 million of 
In 2009, a British court awarded $20 million to hedge funds suing 
That act caps what the hedge funds can collect, they had to settle with Liberia for just over $1 million, and effectively prevents them suing for exorbitant amounts of money in United Kingdom courts. Nick Dearden of the 
FG Hemisphere
When FG's owner Peter Grossman was doorstepped by freelance reporter 
FG Hemisphere is attempting to enforce an ICC arbitration award for $116 million owed by the 
The chief of 
In 1983, 
In 2001, 
On October 2, 2012, 
In November 2012, the New York State Court ruled in favor of Elliot and the other holdouts on the merits of the 
In July 2014, a U.S. federal judge ruled in favor of NML Capital Ltd., a unit of Michael Sheehan's Elliott Management, against 

A 
In banking, the verbs "deposit" and "withdrawal" mean a customer paying money into, and taking money out of, an account, respectively. From a legal and financial accounting standpoint, the noun "deposit" is used by the banking industry in financial statements to describe the liability owed by the bank to its depositor, and not the funds that the bank holds as a result of the deposit, which are shown as 
Subject to restrictions imposed by the terms and conditions of the account, the account holder (customer) retains the right to have the deposited money repaid on demand. The terms and conditions may specify the methods by which a customer may move money into or out of the account, e.g., by 
For example, a depositor depositing $100 in cash into a checking account at a bank in the United States surrenders legal title to the $100 in cash, which becomes an asset of the bank.
In the audited financial statements of the bank, the $100 in currency would be shown on the balance sheet as an asset of the bank and the deposit account would be shown as a liability owed by the bank to its customer. The bank's financial statement reflects the economic substance of the transaction—which is that the bank has borrowed $100 from its depositor and has contractually obliged itself to repay the customer according to the terms of the agreement. These "physical" reserve funds may be held as deposits at the relevant central bank and will receive interest as per 
Typically, a bank will not hold the entire sum in reserve, but will loan most of the money out to other clients, in a process known as 
By transferring the ownership of deposits from one party to another, banks can avoid using physical cash as a method of payment. Commercial bank deposits account for most of the 
Banking operates under an intricate system of customs and conventions developed over many centuries. It is also normally subject to statutory regulations, such as 
To reduce the risk to depositors of a bank failure, some bank deposits may also be secured by a 

In 
The English word "cash" originally meant "money box", and later came to have a secondary meaning "money". This secondary usage became the sole meaning in the 18th century. The word "cash" derives from the 
The root is unrelated to the concept of "cash" in 
"To cash", the verbalization of the noun, means "to convert to cash", as in the expression "to cash a cheque".

In Western Europe, after the 
Coin types would compete for markets. By conquering foreign markets, the issuing rulers would enjoy extra income from 
In the early part of the 17th century, 
At about this time coins were also being produced for the East India Company at the 
Meanwhile, 
The ability to create paper money made nation-states responsible for the management of 
Cash has now become a very small part of the money supply. Its remaining role is to provide a form of currency storage and payment for those who do not wish to take part in other systems, and make small payments conveniently and promptly, though this latter role is being replaced more and more frequently by electronic 
Cash is increasing in circulation. The value of the 
Cashless society is the idea that in the future cash will be redundant having been replaced by electronic means of transfer. In 2016, 1 in 7 people in the UK were reported to no longer carry or use cash.

In 
The bond is a debt 
Thus a bond is a form of 
Bonds and 
In  
Bonds are issued by public authorities, credit institutions, companies and 
In contrast, government bonds are usually issued in an auction. In some cases, both members of the public and banks may bid for bonds. In other cases, only market makers may bid for bonds. The 
In the case of an underwritten bond, the underwriters will charge a fee for underwriting. An alternative process for bond issuance, which is commonly used for smaller issues and avoids this cost, is the private placement bond. Bonds sold directly to buyers may not be tradeable in the 
Historically an alternative practice of issuance was for the borrowing government authority to issue bonds over a period of time, usually at a fixed price, with volumes sold on a particular day dependent on market conditions. This was called a 
Nominal, principal, par, or face amount is the amount on which the issuer pays interest, and which, most commonly, has to be repaid at the end of the term. Some structured bonds can have a redemption amount which is different from the face amount and can be linked to the performance of particular assets.

The issuer has to repay the nominal amount on the 
The 
The yield is the rate of return received from investing in the bond. It usually refers either to

The quality of the issue refers to the probability that the bondholders will receive the amounts promised at the due dates. This will depend on a wide range of factors.

The market price of a tradable bond will be influenced, amongst other factors, by the amounts, currency and timing of the interest payments and capital repayment due, the quality of the bond, and the available redemption yield of other comparable bonds which can be traded in the markets.

The price can be quoted as 
The issue price at which investors buy the bonds when they are first issued will typically be approximately equal to the nominal amount. The net proceeds that the issuer receives are thus the issue price, less issuance fees. The market price of the bond will vary over its life: it may trade at a premium (above par, usually because market interest rates have fallen since issue), or at a discount (price below par, if market rates have risen or there is a high 
The following descriptions are not mutually exclusive, and more than one of them may apply to a particular bond:

Some companies, banks, governments, and other sovereign entities may decide to issue bonds in foreign currencies as it may appear to be more stable and predictable than their domestic currency.
Issuing bonds denominated in foreign currencies also gives issuers the ability to access investment capital available in foreign markets. The proceeds from the issuance of these bonds can be used by companies to break into foreign markets, or can be converted into the issuing company's local currency to be used on existing operations through the use of foreign exchange swap hedges. Foreign issuer bonds can also be used to hedge foreign exchange rate risk. Some foreign issuer bonds are called by their nicknames, such as the "samurai bond". These can be issued by foreign issuers looking to diversify their investor base away from domestic markets. These bond issues are generally governed by the law of the market of issuance, e.g., a samurai bond, issued by an investor based in Europe, will be governed by Japanese law. Not all of the following bonds are restricted for purchase by investors in the market of issuance.

The market price of a bond is the 
The bond's market price is usually expressed as a percentage of nominal value: 100% of face value, "at par", corresponds to a price of 100;  prices can be above par (bond is priced at greater than 100), which is called trading at a premium, or below par (bond is priced at less than 100), which is called trading at a discount.  The 
Most government bonds are denominated in units of $1000 in the 
Bonds are not necessarily issued at par (100% of face value, corresponding to a price of 100), but bond prices will move towards par as they approach maturity (if the market expects the maturity payment to be made in full and on time) as this is the price the issuer will pay to redeem the bond. This is referred to as "
The interest payment ("coupon payment") divided by the current price of the bond is called the 
If the bond includes 
Bond markets, unlike stock or share markets, sometimes do not have a centralized exchange or trading system. Rather, in most developed 
Bond markets can also differ from stock markets in that, in some markets, investors sometimes do not pay brokerage commissions to dealers with whom they buy or sell bonds. Rather, the dealers earn revenue by means of the spread, or difference, between the price at which the dealer buys a bond from one investor—the "bid" price—and the price at which he or she sells the same bond to another investor—the "ask" or "offer" price. The 
Bonds are bought and traded mostly by institutions like 
The volatility of bonds (especially short and medium dated bonds) is lower than that of equities (stocks). Thus, bonds are generally viewed as safer investments than 
Bonds are also subject to various other risks such as call and 
Price changes in a bond will immediately affect 
There is no guarantee of how much money will remain to repay bondholders. As an example, after an accounting scandal and a 
A number of bond indices exist for the purposes of managing portfolios and measuring performance, similar to the 
Market specific
General



The 
Stock can be bought and sold privately or on 
A person who owns a  percentage of the share has the ownership of the corporation proportional to his share. The shares  form stock. The stock of a corporation is partitioned into 
Shares represent a fraction of 
In the 
Stock typically takes the form of shares of either 
New 
Preferred stock may be 
"
A stock 
Stock futures are contracts where the buyer is 
A 
During the Roman Republic, the state contracted (leased) out many of its services to private companies. These government contractors were called 
Around 1250 in 
The earliest recognized joint-stock company in modern times was the English (later British) 
Soon afterwards, in 1602,
The innovation of joint ownership made a great deal of 
Economic historians
A 
Shareholders are granted special privileges depending on the class of stock, including the right to vote on matters such as elections to the 
Shareholders are one type of 
Although directors and officers of a company are bound by 
However, in a few unusual cases, some courts have been willing to imply such a duty between shareholders. For example, in 
The largest shareholders (in terms of percentages of companies owned) are often mutual funds, and, especially, passively managed 
The owners of a private company may want additional capital to invest in new projects within the company. They may also simply wish to reduce their holding, freeing up capital for their own private use. They can achieve these goals by selling shares in the company to the general public, through a sale on a 
By selling shares they can sell part or all of the company to many part-owners. The purchase of one share entitles the owner of that share to literally share in the ownership of the company, a fraction of the decision-making power, and potentially a fraction of the profits, which the company may issue as 
In the common case of a publicly traded corporation, where there may be thousands of shareholders, it is impractical to have all of them making the daily decisions required to run a company. Thus, the shareholders will use their shares as votes in the election of members of the 
In a typical case, each share constitutes one vote. Corporations may, however, issue different classes of shares, which may have different voting rights. Owning the majority of the shares allows other shareholders to be out-voted – effective control rests with the majority shareholder (or shareholders acting in concert). In this way the original owners of the company often still have control of the company.

Although ownership of 50% of shares does result in 50% ownership of a company, it does not give the shareholder the right to use a company's building, equipment, materials, or other property. This is because the company is considered a legal person, thus it owns all its assets itself. This is important in areas such as insurance, which must be in the name of the company and not the main shareholder.

In most countries, 
Even though the board of directors runs the company, the shareholder has some impact on the company's policy, as the shareholders elect the board of directors. Each shareholder typically has a percentage of votes equal to the percentage of shares he or she owns. So as long as the shareholders agree that the management (agent) are performing poorly they can select a new board of directors which can then hire a new management team. In practice, however, genuinely contested board elections are rare. Board candidates are usually nominated by insiders or by the board of the directors themselves, and a considerable amount of stock is held or voted by insiders.

Owning shares does not mean responsibility for liabilities. If a company goes broke and has to default on loans, the shareholders are not liable in any way. However, all money obtained by converting assets into cash will be used to repay loans and other debts first, so that shareholders cannot receive any money unless and until creditors have been paid (often the shareholders end up with nothing).
Financing a company through the sale of stock in a company is known as 
In general, the shares of a company may be transferred from shareholders to other parties by sale or other mechanisms, unless prohibited. Most jurisdictions have established laws and regulations governing such transfers, particularly if the issuer is a publicly traded entity.

The desire of stockholders to trade their shares has led to the establishment of 
Many large non-U.S companies choose to list on a U.S. exchange as well as an exchange in their home country in order to broaden their investor base. These companies must maintain a block of shares at a bank in the US, typically a certain percentage of their capital. On this basis, the holding bank establishes American depositary shares and issues an 
Small companies that do not qualify and cannot meet the listing requirements of the major exchanges may be traded 
There are various methods of buying and 
There are many different brokerage firms from which to choose, such as full service brokers or discount brokers. The full service brokers usually charge more per trade, but give investment advice or more personal service; the discount brokers offer little or no investment advice but charge less for trades. Another type of broker would be a 
There are other ways of buying stock besides through a broker. One way is directly from the company itself. If at least one share is owned, most companies will allow the purchase of shares directly from the company through their 
When it comes to 
Selling stock is procedurally similar to buying stock. Generally, the investor wants to buy low and sell high, if not in that order (
As with buying a stock, there is a transaction fee for the broker's efforts in arranging the transfer of stock from a seller to a buyer. This fee can be high or low depending on which type of brokerage, full service or discount, handles the transaction.

After the transaction has been made, the seller is then entitled to all of the money. An important part of selling is keeping track of the earnings. Importantly, on selling the stock, in jurisdictions that have them, 
The price of a stock fluctuates fundamentally due to the theory of 
At any given moment, an equity's price is strictly a result of supply and demand. The supply, commonly referred to as the 
When prospective buyers outnumber sellers, the price rises. Eventually, sellers attracted to the high selling price enter the market and/or buyers leave, achieving equilibrium between buyers and sellers. When sellers outnumber buyers, the price falls. Eventually buyers enter and/or sellers leave, again achieving equilibrium.

Thus, the value of a share of a company at any given moment is determined by all investors voting with their money. If more investors want a stock and are willing to pay more, the price will go up. If more investors are selling a stock and there aren't enough buyers, the price will go down.

That does not explain how people decide the maximum price at which they are willing to buy or the minimum at which they are willing to sell. In professional investment circles the 
The EMH model, if true, has at least two interesting consequences. First, because financial 
The EMH model does not seem to give a complete description of the process of equity price determination. For example, stock markets are more volatile than EMH would imply. In recent years it has come to be accepted that the share markets are not perfectly efficient, perhaps especially in emerging markets or other markets that are not dominated by well-informed professional investors.

Another theory of share price determination comes from the field of 
When companies raise capital by offering stock on more than one exchange, the potential exists for discrepancies in the valuation of shares on different exchanges.  A keen investor with access to information about such discrepancies may invest in expectation of their eventual convergence, known as 



Asset allocation 
Many financial experts argue that asset allocation is an important factor in determining returns for an investment portfolio.
A fundamental justification for asset allocation is the notion that different 
Although risk is reduced as long as 
When such backward-looking approaches are used to forecast future returns or risks using the traditional mean-variance optimization approach to asset allocation of 
An 
The "traditional" asset classes are 
Allocation among these three provides a starting point. Usually included are hybrid instruments such as 
Other alternative assets that may be considered include:

There are several types of asset allocation strategies based on investment goals, risk tolerance, time frames and diversification. The most common forms of asset allocation are: strategic, dynamic, tactical, and core-satellite.

The primary goal of strategic asset allocation is to create an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Dynamic asset allocation is similar to strategic asset allocation in that portfolios are built by allocating to an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Tactical asset allocation
Core-satellite allocation strategies generally contain a 'core' strategic element making up the most significant portion of the portfolio, while applying a dynamic or tactical 'satellite' strategy that makes up a smaller part of the portfolio. In this way, core-satellite allocation strategies are a hybrid of the strategic and dynamic/tactical allocation strategies mentioned above.
In 1986, 
In 1997, William Jahnke initiated debate on this topic, attacking the BHB study in a paper titled "The Asset Allocation Hoax".
In 2000, 
In both studies, it is misleading to make statements such as "asset allocation explains 93.6% of investment return".
A 2000 paper by Meir Statman found that using the same parameters that explained BHB's 93.6% variance result, a hypothetical financial advisor with perfect foresight in 
Bekkers, Doeswijk and Lam (2009) investigate the diversification benefits for a portfolio by distinguishing ten different investment categories simultaneously in a mean-variance analysis as well as a 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2014) argue that the portfolio of the average investor contains important information for strategic asset allocation purposes. This portfolio shows the relative value of all assets according to the market crowd, which one could interpret as a benchmark or the 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2019) show that the global market portfolio realizes a compounded real return of 4.45% per year with a standard deviation of 11.2% from 1960 until 2017. In the inflationary period from 1960 to 1979, the compounded real return of the global market portfolio is 3.24% per year, while this is 6.01% per year in the disinflationary period from 1980 to 2017. The average return during recessions was -1.96% per year, versus 7.72% per year during expansions. The reward for the average investor over the period 1960 to 2017 is a compounded return of 3.39% points above the risk-less rate earned by savers.
McGuigan described an examination of funds that were in the top quartile of performance during 1983 to 1993.
In fact, low cost was a more reliable indicator of performance. 
In asset allocation planning, the decision on the amount of 
The tables show why asset allocation is important. It determines an investor's future return, as well as the 
There are various reasons why asset allocation fails to work.




Asset allocation 
Many financial experts argue that asset allocation is an important factor in determining returns for an investment portfolio.
A fundamental justification for asset allocation is the notion that different 
Although risk is reduced as long as 
When such backward-looking approaches are used to forecast future returns or risks using the traditional mean-variance optimization approach to asset allocation of 
An 
The "traditional" asset classes are 
Allocation among these three provides a starting point. Usually included are hybrid instruments such as 
Other alternative assets that may be considered include:

There are several types of asset allocation strategies based on investment goals, risk tolerance, time frames and diversification. The most common forms of asset allocation are: strategic, dynamic, tactical, and core-satellite.

The primary goal of strategic asset allocation is to create an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Dynamic asset allocation is similar to strategic asset allocation in that portfolios are built by allocating to an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Tactical asset allocation
Core-satellite allocation strategies generally contain a 'core' strategic element making up the most significant portion of the portfolio, while applying a dynamic or tactical 'satellite' strategy that makes up a smaller part of the portfolio. In this way, core-satellite allocation strategies are a hybrid of the strategic and dynamic/tactical allocation strategies mentioned above.
In 1986, 
In 1997, William Jahnke initiated debate on this topic, attacking the BHB study in a paper titled "The Asset Allocation Hoax".
In 2000, 
In both studies, it is misleading to make statements such as "asset allocation explains 93.6% of investment return".
A 2000 paper by Meir Statman found that using the same parameters that explained BHB's 93.6% variance result, a hypothetical financial advisor with perfect foresight in 
Bekkers, Doeswijk and Lam (2009) investigate the diversification benefits for a portfolio by distinguishing ten different investment categories simultaneously in a mean-variance analysis as well as a 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2014) argue that the portfolio of the average investor contains important information for strategic asset allocation purposes. This portfolio shows the relative value of all assets according to the market crowd, which one could interpret as a benchmark or the 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2019) show that the global market portfolio realizes a compounded real return of 4.45% per year with a standard deviation of 11.2% from 1960 until 2017. In the inflationary period from 1960 to 1979, the compounded real return of the global market portfolio is 3.24% per year, while this is 6.01% per year in the disinflationary period from 1980 to 2017. The average return during recessions was -1.96% per year, versus 7.72% per year during expansions. The reward for the average investor over the period 1960 to 2017 is a compounded return of 3.39% points above the risk-less rate earned by savers.
McGuigan described an examination of funds that were in the top quartile of performance during 1983 to 1993.
In fact, low cost was a more reliable indicator of performance. 
In asset allocation planning, the decision on the amount of 
The tables show why asset allocation is important. It determines an investor's future return, as well as the 
There are various reasons why asset allocation fails to work.




Asset allocation 
Many financial experts argue that asset allocation is an important factor in determining returns for an investment portfolio.
A fundamental justification for asset allocation is the notion that different 
Although risk is reduced as long as 
When such backward-looking approaches are used to forecast future returns or risks using the traditional mean-variance optimization approach to asset allocation of 
An 
The "traditional" asset classes are 
Allocation among these three provides a starting point. Usually included are hybrid instruments such as 
Other alternative assets that may be considered include:

There are several types of asset allocation strategies based on investment goals, risk tolerance, time frames and diversification. The most common forms of asset allocation are: strategic, dynamic, tactical, and core-satellite.

The primary goal of strategic asset allocation is to create an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Dynamic asset allocation is similar to strategic asset allocation in that portfolios are built by allocating to an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Tactical asset allocation
Core-satellite allocation strategies generally contain a 'core' strategic element making up the most significant portion of the portfolio, while applying a dynamic or tactical 'satellite' strategy that makes up a smaller part of the portfolio. In this way, core-satellite allocation strategies are a hybrid of the strategic and dynamic/tactical allocation strategies mentioned above.
In 1986, 
In 1997, William Jahnke initiated debate on this topic, attacking the BHB study in a paper titled "The Asset Allocation Hoax".
In 2000, 
In both studies, it is misleading to make statements such as "asset allocation explains 93.6% of investment return".
A 2000 paper by Meir Statman found that using the same parameters that explained BHB's 93.6% variance result, a hypothetical financial advisor with perfect foresight in 
Bekkers, Doeswijk and Lam (2009) investigate the diversification benefits for a portfolio by distinguishing ten different investment categories simultaneously in a mean-variance analysis as well as a 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2014) argue that the portfolio of the average investor contains important information for strategic asset allocation purposes. This portfolio shows the relative value of all assets according to the market crowd, which one could interpret as a benchmark or the 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2019) show that the global market portfolio realizes a compounded real return of 4.45% per year with a standard deviation of 11.2% from 1960 until 2017. In the inflationary period from 1960 to 1979, the compounded real return of the global market portfolio is 3.24% per year, while this is 6.01% per year in the disinflationary period from 1980 to 2017. The average return during recessions was -1.96% per year, versus 7.72% per year during expansions. The reward for the average investor over the period 1960 to 2017 is a compounded return of 3.39% points above the risk-less rate earned by savers.
McGuigan described an examination of funds that were in the top quartile of performance during 1983 to 1993.
In fact, low cost was a more reliable indicator of performance. 
In asset allocation planning, the decision on the amount of 
The tables show why asset allocation is important. It determines an investor's future return, as well as the 
There are various reasons why asset allocation fails to work.




Asset allocation 
Many financial experts argue that asset allocation is an important factor in determining returns for an investment portfolio.
A fundamental justification for asset allocation is the notion that different 
Although risk is reduced as long as 
When such backward-looking approaches are used to forecast future returns or risks using the traditional mean-variance optimization approach to asset allocation of 
An 
The "traditional" asset classes are 
Allocation among these three provides a starting point. Usually included are hybrid instruments such as 
Other alternative assets that may be considered include:

There are several types of asset allocation strategies based on investment goals, risk tolerance, time frames and diversification. The most common forms of asset allocation are: strategic, dynamic, tactical, and core-satellite.

The primary goal of strategic asset allocation is to create an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Dynamic asset allocation is similar to strategic asset allocation in that portfolios are built by allocating to an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Tactical asset allocation
Core-satellite allocation strategies generally contain a 'core' strategic element making up the most significant portion of the portfolio, while applying a dynamic or tactical 'satellite' strategy that makes up a smaller part of the portfolio. In this way, core-satellite allocation strategies are a hybrid of the strategic and dynamic/tactical allocation strategies mentioned above.
In 1986, 
In 1997, William Jahnke initiated debate on this topic, attacking the BHB study in a paper titled "The Asset Allocation Hoax".
In 2000, 
In both studies, it is misleading to make statements such as "asset allocation explains 93.6% of investment return".
A 2000 paper by Meir Statman found that using the same parameters that explained BHB's 93.6% variance result, a hypothetical financial advisor with perfect foresight in 
Bekkers, Doeswijk and Lam (2009) investigate the diversification benefits for a portfolio by distinguishing ten different investment categories simultaneously in a mean-variance analysis as well as a 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2014) argue that the portfolio of the average investor contains important information for strategic asset allocation purposes. This portfolio shows the relative value of all assets according to the market crowd, which one could interpret as a benchmark or the 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2019) show that the global market portfolio realizes a compounded real return of 4.45% per year with a standard deviation of 11.2% from 1960 until 2017. In the inflationary period from 1960 to 1979, the compounded real return of the global market portfolio is 3.24% per year, while this is 6.01% per year in the disinflationary period from 1980 to 2017. The average return during recessions was -1.96% per year, versus 7.72% per year during expansions. The reward for the average investor over the period 1960 to 2017 is a compounded return of 3.39% points above the risk-less rate earned by savers.
McGuigan described an examination of funds that were in the top quartile of performance during 1983 to 1993.
In fact, low cost was a more reliable indicator of performance. 
In asset allocation planning, the decision on the amount of 
The tables show why asset allocation is important. It determines an investor's future return, as well as the 
There are various reasons why asset allocation fails to work.




Asset allocation 
Many financial experts argue that asset allocation is an important factor in determining returns for an investment portfolio.
A fundamental justification for asset allocation is the notion that different 
Although risk is reduced as long as 
When such backward-looking approaches are used to forecast future returns or risks using the traditional mean-variance optimization approach to asset allocation of 
An 
The "traditional" asset classes are 
Allocation among these three provides a starting point. Usually included are hybrid instruments such as 
Other alternative assets that may be considered include:

There are several types of asset allocation strategies based on investment goals, risk tolerance, time frames and diversification. The most common forms of asset allocation are: strategic, dynamic, tactical, and core-satellite.

The primary goal of strategic asset allocation is to create an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Dynamic asset allocation is similar to strategic asset allocation in that portfolios are built by allocating to an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Tactical asset allocation
Core-satellite allocation strategies generally contain a 'core' strategic element making up the most significant portion of the portfolio, while applying a dynamic or tactical 'satellite' strategy that makes up a smaller part of the portfolio. In this way, core-satellite allocation strategies are a hybrid of the strategic and dynamic/tactical allocation strategies mentioned above.
In 1986, 
In 1997, William Jahnke initiated debate on this topic, attacking the BHB study in a paper titled "The Asset Allocation Hoax".
In 2000, 
In both studies, it is misleading to make statements such as "asset allocation explains 93.6% of investment return".
A 2000 paper by Meir Statman found that using the same parameters that explained BHB's 93.6% variance result, a hypothetical financial advisor with perfect foresight in 
Bekkers, Doeswijk and Lam (2009) investigate the diversification benefits for a portfolio by distinguishing ten different investment categories simultaneously in a mean-variance analysis as well as a 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2014) argue that the portfolio of the average investor contains important information for strategic asset allocation purposes. This portfolio shows the relative value of all assets according to the market crowd, which one could interpret as a benchmark or the 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2019) show that the global market portfolio realizes a compounded real return of 4.45% per year with a standard deviation of 11.2% from 1960 until 2017. In the inflationary period from 1960 to 1979, the compounded real return of the global market portfolio is 3.24% per year, while this is 6.01% per year in the disinflationary period from 1980 to 2017. The average return during recessions was -1.96% per year, versus 7.72% per year during expansions. The reward for the average investor over the period 1960 to 2017 is a compounded return of 3.39% points above the risk-less rate earned by savers.
McGuigan described an examination of funds that were in the top quartile of performance during 1983 to 1993.
In fact, low cost was a more reliable indicator of performance. 
In asset allocation planning, the decision on the amount of 
The tables show why asset allocation is important. It determines an investor's future return, as well as the 
There are various reasons why asset allocation fails to work.




Asset allocation 
Many financial experts argue that asset allocation is an important factor in determining returns for an investment portfolio.
A fundamental justification for asset allocation is the notion that different 
Although risk is reduced as long as 
When such backward-looking approaches are used to forecast future returns or risks using the traditional mean-variance optimization approach to asset allocation of 
An 
The "traditional" asset classes are 
Allocation among these three provides a starting point. Usually included are hybrid instruments such as 
Other alternative assets that may be considered include:

There are several types of asset allocation strategies based on investment goals, risk tolerance, time frames and diversification. The most common forms of asset allocation are: strategic, dynamic, tactical, and core-satellite.

The primary goal of strategic asset allocation is to create an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Dynamic asset allocation is similar to strategic asset allocation in that portfolios are built by allocating to an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Tactical asset allocation
Core-satellite allocation strategies generally contain a 'core' strategic element making up the most significant portion of the portfolio, while applying a dynamic or tactical 'satellite' strategy that makes up a smaller part of the portfolio. In this way, core-satellite allocation strategies are a hybrid of the strategic and dynamic/tactical allocation strategies mentioned above.
In 1986, 
In 1997, William Jahnke initiated debate on this topic, attacking the BHB study in a paper titled "The Asset Allocation Hoax".
In 2000, 
In both studies, it is misleading to make statements such as "asset allocation explains 93.6% of investment return".
A 2000 paper by Meir Statman found that using the same parameters that explained BHB's 93.6% variance result, a hypothetical financial advisor with perfect foresight in 
Bekkers, Doeswijk and Lam (2009) investigate the diversification benefits for a portfolio by distinguishing ten different investment categories simultaneously in a mean-variance analysis as well as a 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2014) argue that the portfolio of the average investor contains important information for strategic asset allocation purposes. This portfolio shows the relative value of all assets according to the market crowd, which one could interpret as a benchmark or the 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2019) show that the global market portfolio realizes a compounded real return of 4.45% per year with a standard deviation of 11.2% from 1960 until 2017. In the inflationary period from 1960 to 1979, the compounded real return of the global market portfolio is 3.24% per year, while this is 6.01% per year in the disinflationary period from 1980 to 2017. The average return during recessions was -1.96% per year, versus 7.72% per year during expansions. The reward for the average investor over the period 1960 to 2017 is a compounded return of 3.39% points above the risk-less rate earned by savers.
McGuigan described an examination of funds that were in the top quartile of performance during 1983 to 1993.
In fact, low cost was a more reliable indicator of performance. 
In asset allocation planning, the decision on the amount of 
The tables show why asset allocation is important. It determines an investor's future return, as well as the 
There are various reasons why asset allocation fails to work.






Private equity
Private equity is, strictly speaking, a type of 
A private equity investment will generally be made by a 
Bloomberg Businessweek
Private equity is also often grouped into a broader category called 
The key features of private equity operations are generally as follows.

The strategies private equity firms may use are as follows, leveraged buyout being the most important.

Leveraged buyout, LBO or Buyout refers to a strategy of making equity investments as part of a transaction in which a company, business unit or business assets is acquired from the current shareholders typically with the use of 
Private equity firms view target companies as either 
Leveraged buyouts involve a 
As a percentage of the purchase price for a leverage buyout target, the amount of debt used to finance a transaction varies according to the financial condition and history of the acquisition target, market conditions, the willingness of 
A private equity fund, ABC Capital II, borrows $9bn from a bank (or other lender). To this it adds $2bn of 
The stock market is experiencing a 
Note that part of that profit results from turning the company around, and part results from the general increase in share prices in a buoyant stock market, the latter often being the greater component.
Notes:

Growth Capital
Companies that seek growth capital will often do so in order to finance a transformational event in their life cycle. These companies are likely to be more mature than venture capital funded companies, able to generate revenue and operating profits but unable to generate sufficient cash to fund major expansions, acquisitions or other investments. Because of this lack of scale these companies generally can find few alternative conduits to secure capital for growth, so access to growth equity can be critical to pursue necessary facility expansion, sales and marketing initiatives, equipment purchases, and new product development.
The primary owner of the company may not be willing to take the financial risk alone. By selling part of the company to private equity, the owner can take out some value and share the risk of growth with partners.
A 
The Registered Direct, or RD, is another common financing vehicle used for growth capital. A registered direct is similar to a PIPE but is instead sold as a registered security.

Mezzanine capital
Venture capital
Venture capital is often sub-divided by the stage of development of the company ranging from early stage capital used for the launch of 
Entrepreneurs often develop products and ideas that require substantial capital during the formative stages of their companies' life cycles.
Investors generally commit to venture capital funds as part of a wider diversified private equity 
Distressed
In addition to these private equity strategies, 
Secondary investments refer to investments made in existing private equity assets. These transactions can involve the sale of 
Other strategies that can be considered private equity or a close adjacent market include:

The seeds of the US private equity industry were planted in 1946 with the founding of two venture capital firms: 
The first leveraged buyout may have been the purchase by 
The leveraged buyout boom of the 1980s was conceived by a number of corporate financiers, most notably 
In January 1982, former 
The success of the Gibson Greetings investment attracted the attention of the wider media to the nascent boom in leveraged buyouts. Between 1979 and 1989, it was estimated that there were over 2,000 leveraged buyouts valued in excess of $250 million
During the 1980s, constituencies within acquired companies and the media ascribed the "
One of the final major buyouts of the 1980s proved to be its most ambitious and marked both a high-water mark and a sign of the beginning of the end of the boom that had begun nearly a decade earlier. In 1989, KKR (Kohlberg Kravis Roberts) closed in on a $31.1 billion takeover of 
Drexel reached an agreement with the government in which it pleaded 
The combination of decreasing interest rates, loosening lending standards and regulatory changes for publicly traded companies (specifically the 
As 2005 ended and 2006 began, new "largest buyout" records were set and surpassed several times with nine of the top ten buyouts at the end of 2007 having been announced in an 18-month window from the beginning of 2006 through the middle of 2007. In 2006, private equity firms bought 654 U.S. companies for $375 billion, representing 18 times the level of transactions closed in 2003.
In July 2007, turmoil that had been affecting the 
As a result of the global financial crisis, private equity has become subject to increased regulation in Europe and is now subject, among other things, to rules preventing asset stripping of portfolio companies and requiring the notification and disclosure of information in connection with buy-out activity.
Although the capital for private equity originally came from individual investors or corporations, in the 1970s, private equity became an asset class in which various 
US, Canadian and European public and private pension schemes have invested in the asset class since the early 1980s to 
Most institutional investors do not invest directly in 
Returns on private equity investments are created through one or a combination of three factors that include: debt repayment or cash accumulation through cash flows from operations, operational improvements that increase earnings over the life of the investment and multiple expansion, selling the business for a higher price than was originally paid. A key component of private equity as an asset class for institutional investors is that investments are typically realized after some period of time, which will vary depending on the investment strategy. Private equity investments are typically realized through one of the following avenues:

Large institutional asset owners such as pension funds (with typically long-dated liabilities), insurance companies, sovereign wealth and national reserve funds have a generally low likelihood of facing liquidity shocks in the medium term, and thus can afford the required long holding periods characteristic of private equity investment.
The median horizon for a LBO transaction is 8 years.
The private equity secondary market (also often called private equity secondaries) refers to the buying and selling of pre-existing investor commitments to private equity and other alternative investment funds. Sellers of private equity investments sell not only the investments in the fund but also their remaining unfunded commitments to the funds. By its nature, the private equity asset class is illiquid, intended to be a long-term investment for buy-and-hold investors. For the vast majority of private equity investments, there is no listed public market; however, there is a robust and maturing secondary market available for sellers of private equity assets.

Increasingly, 
Investors seeking access to private equity have been restricted to investments with structural impediments such as long lock-up periods, lack of transparency, unlimited leverage, concentrated holdings of illiquid securities and high investment minimums.

Secondary transactions can be generally split into two basic categories:

According to an updated 2017 ranking created by industry magazine Private Equity International
Because 
Additionally, 
The investment strategies of private equity firms differ to those of 
Private equity fundraising refers to the action of private equity firms seeking capital from investors for their funds. Typically an investor will invest in a specific fund managed by a firm, becoming a limited partner in the fund, rather than an investor in the firm itself. As a result, an investor will only benefit from investments made by a firm where the investment is made from the specific fund in which it has invested.

As fundraising has grown over the past few years, so too has the number of investors in the average fund. In 2004 there were 26 investors in the average private equity fund, this figure has now grown to 42 according to 
The managers of private equity funds will also invest in their own vehicles, typically providing between 1–5% of the overall capital.

Often private equity fund managers will employ the services of external fundraising teams known as placement agents in order to raise capital for their vehicles. The use of placement agents has grown over the past few years, with 40% of funds closed in 2006 employing their services, according to Preqin ltd. Placement agents will approach potential investors on behalf of the fund manager, and will typically take a fee of around 1% of the commitments that they are able to garner.

The amount of time that a private equity firm spends raising capital varies depending on the level of interest among investors, which is defined by current market conditions and also the track record of previous funds raised by the firm in question. Firms can spend as little as one or two months raising capital when they are able to reach the target that they set for their funds relatively easily, often through gaining commitments from existing investors in their previous funds, or where strong past performance leads to strong levels of investor interest. Other managers may find fundraising taking considerably longer, with managers of less popular fund types (such as US and European venture fund managers in the current climate) finding the fundraising process more tough. It is not unheard of for funds to spend as long as two years on the road seeking capital, although the majority of fund managers will complete fundraising within nine months to fifteen months.

Once a fund has reached its fundraising target, it will have a final close. After this point it is not normally possible for new investors to invest in the fund, unless they were to purchase an interest in the fund on the secondary market.

The state of the industry around the end of 2011 was as follows.
Private equity 
Some $246bn of private equity was invested globally in 2011, down 6% on the previous year and around two-thirds below the peak activity in 2006 and 2007. Following on from a strong start, deal activity slowed in the second half of 2011 due to concerns over the global economy and sovereign debt crisis in Europe. There was $93bn in investments during the first half of this year as the slowdown persisted into 2012. This was down a quarter on the same period in the previous year. Private-equity backed buyouts generated some 6.9% of global M&A volume in 2011 and 5.9% in the first half of 2012. This was down on 7.4% in 2010 and well below the all-time high of 21% in 2006.

Global exit activity totalled $252bn in 2011, practically unchanged from the previous year, but well up on 2008 and 2009 as private equity firms sought to take advantage of improved market conditions at the start of the year to realise investments. Exit activity however, has lost momentum following a peak of $113bn in the second quarter of 2011. TheCityUK estimates total exit activity of some $100bn in the first half of 2012, well down on the same period in the previous year.

The fund raising environment remained stable for the third year running in 2011 with $270bn in new funds raised, slightly down on the previous year’s total. Around $130bn in funds was raised in the first half of 2012, down around a fifth on the first half of 2011. The average time for funds to achieve a final close fell to 16.7 months in the first half of 2012, from 18.5 months in 2011. Private equity funds available for investment (“dry powder”) totalled $949bn at the end of q1-2012, down around 6% on the previous year. Including unrealised funds in existing investments, private equity funds under management probably totalled over $2.0 trillion.

Public pensions are a major source of capital for private equity funds. Increasingly, 
Due to limited disclosure, studying the returns to private equity is relatively difficult. Unlike mutual funds, private equity funds need not disclose performance data. And, as they invest in private companies, it is difficult to examine the underlying investments. It is challenging to compare private equity performance to public equity performance, in particular because private equity fund investments are drawn and returned over time as investments are made and subsequently realized.

An oft-cited academic paper (Kaplan and Schoar, 2005)
Commentators have argued that a standard methodology is needed to present an accurate picture of performance, to make individual private equity funds comparable and so the asset class as a whole can be matched against public markets and other types of investment. It is also claimed that PE fund managers manipulate data to present themselves as strong performers, which makes it even more essential to standardize the industry.
Two other findings in Kaplan and Schoar (2005): First, there is considerable variation in performance across PE funds. Second, unlike the mutual fund industry, there appears to be performance persistence in PE funds. That is, PE funds that perform well over one period, tend to also perform well the next period. Persistence is stronger for VC firms than for LBO firms.

The application of the 
In the United Kingdom, the second largest market for private equity, more data has become available since the 2007 publication of the 
There is a debate around the distinction between private equity and 
Private equity decision-making has been shown to suffer from 

Asset allocation 
Many financial experts argue that asset allocation is an important factor in determining returns for an investment portfolio.
A fundamental justification for asset allocation is the notion that different 
Although risk is reduced as long as 
When such backward-looking approaches are used to forecast future returns or risks using the traditional mean-variance optimization approach to asset allocation of 
An 
The "traditional" asset classes are 
Allocation among these three provides a starting point. Usually included are hybrid instruments such as 
Other alternative assets that may be considered include:

There are several types of asset allocation strategies based on investment goals, risk tolerance, time frames and diversification. The most common forms of asset allocation are: strategic, dynamic, tactical, and core-satellite.

The primary goal of strategic asset allocation is to create an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Dynamic asset allocation is similar to strategic asset allocation in that portfolios are built by allocating to an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Tactical asset allocation
Core-satellite allocation strategies generally contain a 'core' strategic element making up the most significant portion of the portfolio, while applying a dynamic or tactical 'satellite' strategy that makes up a smaller part of the portfolio. In this way, core-satellite allocation strategies are a hybrid of the strategic and dynamic/tactical allocation strategies mentioned above.
In 1986, 
In 1997, William Jahnke initiated debate on this topic, attacking the BHB study in a paper titled "The Asset Allocation Hoax".
In 2000, 
In both studies, it is misleading to make statements such as "asset allocation explains 93.6% of investment return".
A 2000 paper by Meir Statman found that using the same parameters that explained BHB's 93.6% variance result, a hypothetical financial advisor with perfect foresight in 
Bekkers, Doeswijk and Lam (2009) investigate the diversification benefits for a portfolio by distinguishing ten different investment categories simultaneously in a mean-variance analysis as well as a 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2014) argue that the portfolio of the average investor contains important information for strategic asset allocation purposes. This portfolio shows the relative value of all assets according to the market crowd, which one could interpret as a benchmark or the 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2019) show that the global market portfolio realizes a compounded real return of 4.45% per year with a standard deviation of 11.2% from 1960 until 2017. In the inflationary period from 1960 to 1979, the compounded real return of the global market portfolio is 3.24% per year, while this is 6.01% per year in the disinflationary period from 1980 to 2017. The average return during recessions was -1.96% per year, versus 7.72% per year during expansions. The reward for the average investor over the period 1960 to 2017 is a compounded return of 3.39% points above the risk-less rate earned by savers.
McGuigan described an examination of funds that were in the top quartile of performance during 1983 to 1993.
In fact, low cost was a more reliable indicator of performance. 
In asset allocation planning, the decision on the amount of 
The tables show why asset allocation is important. It determines an investor's future return, as well as the 
There are various reasons why asset allocation fails to work.




Asset allocation 
Many financial experts argue that asset allocation is an important factor in determining returns for an investment portfolio.
A fundamental justification for asset allocation is the notion that different 
Although risk is reduced as long as 
When such backward-looking approaches are used to forecast future returns or risks using the traditional mean-variance optimization approach to asset allocation of 
An 
The "traditional" asset classes are 
Allocation among these three provides a starting point. Usually included are hybrid instruments such as 
Other alternative assets that may be considered include:

There are several types of asset allocation strategies based on investment goals, risk tolerance, time frames and diversification. The most common forms of asset allocation are: strategic, dynamic, tactical, and core-satellite.

The primary goal of strategic asset allocation is to create an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Dynamic asset allocation is similar to strategic asset allocation in that portfolios are built by allocating to an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Tactical asset allocation
Core-satellite allocation strategies generally contain a 'core' strategic element making up the most significant portion of the portfolio, while applying a dynamic or tactical 'satellite' strategy that makes up a smaller part of the portfolio. In this way, core-satellite allocation strategies are a hybrid of the strategic and dynamic/tactical allocation strategies mentioned above.
In 1986, 
In 1997, William Jahnke initiated debate on this topic, attacking the BHB study in a paper titled "The Asset Allocation Hoax".
In 2000, 
In both studies, it is misleading to make statements such as "asset allocation explains 93.6% of investment return".
A 2000 paper by Meir Statman found that using the same parameters that explained BHB's 93.6% variance result, a hypothetical financial advisor with perfect foresight in 
Bekkers, Doeswijk and Lam (2009) investigate the diversification benefits for a portfolio by distinguishing ten different investment categories simultaneously in a mean-variance analysis as well as a 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2014) argue that the portfolio of the average investor contains important information for strategic asset allocation purposes. This portfolio shows the relative value of all assets according to the market crowd, which one could interpret as a benchmark or the 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2019) show that the global market portfolio realizes a compounded real return of 4.45% per year with a standard deviation of 11.2% from 1960 until 2017. In the inflationary period from 1960 to 1979, the compounded real return of the global market portfolio is 3.24% per year, while this is 6.01% per year in the disinflationary period from 1980 to 2017. The average return during recessions was -1.96% per year, versus 7.72% per year during expansions. The reward for the average investor over the period 1960 to 2017 is a compounded return of 3.39% points above the risk-less rate earned by savers.
McGuigan described an examination of funds that were in the top quartile of performance during 1983 to 1993.
In fact, low cost was a more reliable indicator of performance. 
In asset allocation planning, the decision on the amount of 
The tables show why asset allocation is important. It determines an investor's future return, as well as the 
There are various reasons why asset allocation fails to work.




Asset allocation 
Many financial experts argue that asset allocation is an important factor in determining returns for an investment portfolio.
A fundamental justification for asset allocation is the notion that different 
Although risk is reduced as long as 
When such backward-looking approaches are used to forecast future returns or risks using the traditional mean-variance optimization approach to asset allocation of 
An 
The "traditional" asset classes are 
Allocation among these three provides a starting point. Usually included are hybrid instruments such as 
Other alternative assets that may be considered include:

There are several types of asset allocation strategies based on investment goals, risk tolerance, time frames and diversification. The most common forms of asset allocation are: strategic, dynamic, tactical, and core-satellite.

The primary goal of strategic asset allocation is to create an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Dynamic asset allocation is similar to strategic asset allocation in that portfolios are built by allocating to an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Tactical asset allocation
Core-satellite allocation strategies generally contain a 'core' strategic element making up the most significant portion of the portfolio, while applying a dynamic or tactical 'satellite' strategy that makes up a smaller part of the portfolio. In this way, core-satellite allocation strategies are a hybrid of the strategic and dynamic/tactical allocation strategies mentioned above.
In 1986, 
In 1997, William Jahnke initiated debate on this topic, attacking the BHB study in a paper titled "The Asset Allocation Hoax".
In 2000, 
In both studies, it is misleading to make statements such as "asset allocation explains 93.6% of investment return".
A 2000 paper by Meir Statman found that using the same parameters that explained BHB's 93.6% variance result, a hypothetical financial advisor with perfect foresight in 
Bekkers, Doeswijk and Lam (2009) investigate the diversification benefits for a portfolio by distinguishing ten different investment categories simultaneously in a mean-variance analysis as well as a 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2014) argue that the portfolio of the average investor contains important information for strategic asset allocation purposes. This portfolio shows the relative value of all assets according to the market crowd, which one could interpret as a benchmark or the 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2019) show that the global market portfolio realizes a compounded real return of 4.45% per year with a standard deviation of 11.2% from 1960 until 2017. In the inflationary period from 1960 to 1979, the compounded real return of the global market portfolio is 3.24% per year, while this is 6.01% per year in the disinflationary period from 1980 to 2017. The average return during recessions was -1.96% per year, versus 7.72% per year during expansions. The reward for the average investor over the period 1960 to 2017 is a compounded return of 3.39% points above the risk-less rate earned by savers.
McGuigan described an examination of funds that were in the top quartile of performance during 1983 to 1993.
In fact, low cost was a more reliable indicator of performance. 
In asset allocation planning, the decision on the amount of 
The tables show why asset allocation is important. It determines an investor's future return, as well as the 
There are various reasons why asset allocation fails to work.




Asset allocation 
Many financial experts argue that asset allocation is an important factor in determining returns for an investment portfolio.
A fundamental justification for asset allocation is the notion that different 
Although risk is reduced as long as 
When such backward-looking approaches are used to forecast future returns or risks using the traditional mean-variance optimization approach to asset allocation of 
An 
The "traditional" asset classes are 
Allocation among these three provides a starting point. Usually included are hybrid instruments such as 
Other alternative assets that may be considered include:

There are several types of asset allocation strategies based on investment goals, risk tolerance, time frames and diversification. The most common forms of asset allocation are: strategic, dynamic, tactical, and core-satellite.

The primary goal of strategic asset allocation is to create an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Dynamic asset allocation is similar to strategic asset allocation in that portfolios are built by allocating to an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Tactical asset allocation
Core-satellite allocation strategies generally contain a 'core' strategic element making up the most significant portion of the portfolio, while applying a dynamic or tactical 'satellite' strategy that makes up a smaller part of the portfolio. In this way, core-satellite allocation strategies are a hybrid of the strategic and dynamic/tactical allocation strategies mentioned above.
In 1986, 
In 1997, William Jahnke initiated debate on this topic, attacking the BHB study in a paper titled "The Asset Allocation Hoax".
In 2000, 
In both studies, it is misleading to make statements such as "asset allocation explains 93.6% of investment return".
A 2000 paper by Meir Statman found that using the same parameters that explained BHB's 93.6% variance result, a hypothetical financial advisor with perfect foresight in 
Bekkers, Doeswijk and Lam (2009) investigate the diversification benefits for a portfolio by distinguishing ten different investment categories simultaneously in a mean-variance analysis as well as a 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2014) argue that the portfolio of the average investor contains important information for strategic asset allocation purposes. This portfolio shows the relative value of all assets according to the market crowd, which one could interpret as a benchmark or the 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2019) show that the global market portfolio realizes a compounded real return of 4.45% per year with a standard deviation of 11.2% from 1960 until 2017. In the inflationary period from 1960 to 1979, the compounded real return of the global market portfolio is 3.24% per year, while this is 6.01% per year in the disinflationary period from 1980 to 2017. The average return during recessions was -1.96% per year, versus 7.72% per year during expansions. The reward for the average investor over the period 1960 to 2017 is a compounded return of 3.39% points above the risk-less rate earned by savers.
McGuigan described an examination of funds that were in the top quartile of performance during 1983 to 1993.
In fact, low cost was a more reliable indicator of performance. 
In asset allocation planning, the decision on the amount of 
The tables show why asset allocation is important. It determines an investor's future return, as well as the 
There are various reasons why asset allocation fails to work.




Asset allocation 
Many financial experts argue that asset allocation is an important factor in determining returns for an investment portfolio.
A fundamental justification for asset allocation is the notion that different 
Although risk is reduced as long as 
When such backward-looking approaches are used to forecast future returns or risks using the traditional mean-variance optimization approach to asset allocation of 
An 
The "traditional" asset classes are 
Allocation among these three provides a starting point. Usually included are hybrid instruments such as 
Other alternative assets that may be considered include:

There are several types of asset allocation strategies based on investment goals, risk tolerance, time frames and diversification. The most common forms of asset allocation are: strategic, dynamic, tactical, and core-satellite.

The primary goal of strategic asset allocation is to create an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Dynamic asset allocation is similar to strategic asset allocation in that portfolios are built by allocating to an asset mix that seeks to provide the optimal balance between expected risk and return for a long-term investment horizon.
Tactical asset allocation
Core-satellite allocation strategies generally contain a 'core' strategic element making up the most significant portion of the portfolio, while applying a dynamic or tactical 'satellite' strategy that makes up a smaller part of the portfolio. In this way, core-satellite allocation strategies are a hybrid of the strategic and dynamic/tactical allocation strategies mentioned above.
In 1986, 
In 1997, William Jahnke initiated debate on this topic, attacking the BHB study in a paper titled "The Asset Allocation Hoax".
In 2000, 
In both studies, it is misleading to make statements such as "asset allocation explains 93.6% of investment return".
A 2000 paper by Meir Statman found that using the same parameters that explained BHB's 93.6% variance result, a hypothetical financial advisor with perfect foresight in 
Bekkers, Doeswijk and Lam (2009) investigate the diversification benefits for a portfolio by distinguishing ten different investment categories simultaneously in a mean-variance analysis as well as a 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2014) argue that the portfolio of the average investor contains important information for strategic asset allocation purposes. This portfolio shows the relative value of all assets according to the market crowd, which one could interpret as a benchmark or the 
Doeswijk, Lam and Swinkels (2019) show that the global market portfolio realizes a compounded real return of 4.45% per year with a standard deviation of 11.2% from 1960 until 2017. In the inflationary period from 1960 to 1979, the compounded real return of the global market portfolio is 3.24% per year, while this is 6.01% per year in the disinflationary period from 1980 to 2017. The average return during recessions was -1.96% per year, versus 7.72% per year during expansions. The reward for the average investor over the period 1960 to 2017 is a compounded return of 3.39% points above the risk-less rate earned by savers.
McGuigan described an examination of funds that were in the top quartile of performance during 1983 to 1993.
In fact, low cost was a more reliable indicator of performance. 
In asset allocation planning, the decision on the amount of 
The tables show why asset allocation is important. It determines an investor's future return, as well as the 
There are various reasons why asset allocation fails to work.




Portfolio optimization
Modern portfolio theory
The portfolio optimization problem is specified as a 
Portfolio optimization often takes place in two stages: optimizing weights of asset classes to hold, and optimizing weights of assets within the same asset class. An example of the former would be choosing the proportions placed in equities versus bonds, while an example of the latter would be choosing the proportions of the stock sub-portfolio placed in stocks X, Y, and Z. Equities and bonds have fundamentally different financial characteristics and have different 
One approach to portfolio optimization is to specify a 
Harry Markowitz
For the specific formulas for efficient portfolios,
The complexity and scale of optimizing portfolios over many assets means that the work is generally done by computer. Central to this optimization is the construction of the 
Techniques include:

Portfolio optimization is usually done subject to constraints, such as regulatory constraints, or illiquidity. These constraints can lead to portfolio weights that focus on a small sub-sample of assets within the portfolio. When the portfolio optimization process is subject to other constraints such as taxes, transaction costs, and management fees, the optimization process may result in an under-diversified portfolio.
Investors may be forbidden by law to hold some assets. In some cases, unconstrained portfolio optimization would lead to 
Transaction costs
Different approaches to portfolio optimization measure risk differently. In addition to the traditional measure, 
Investment is a forward-looking activity, and thus the 
In a mean-variance optimization framework, accurate estimation of the 
Other optimization strategies that focus on minimizing tail-risk (e.g., 
More recently, hedge fund managers have been applying "full-scale optimization" whereby any investor utility function can be used to optimize a portfolio.
A group of investors, instead of investing individually, may choose to invest their total capital into the joint portfolio, and then divide the (uncertain) investment profit in a way which suits best their 



Venture capital
The typical venture capital investment occurs after an initial "
In addition to 
Venture capital is also a way in which the private and public sectors can construct an institution that systematically creates 
A startup may be defined as a project prospective converted into a process with an adequate assumed risk and investment. With few exceptions, private equity in the first half of the 20th century was the domain of wealthy individuals and families. The Wallenbergs, Vanderbilts, Whitneys, Rockefellers, and Warburgs were notable investors in private companies in the first half of the century. In 1938, 
Before 
Georges Doriot
Former employees of ARDC went on to establish several prominent venture-capital firms including 
John Hay Whitney
One of the first steps toward a professionally managed venture capital industry was the passage of the 
During the 1950s, putting a venture capital deal together may have required the help of two or three other organizations to complete the transaction. It was a business that was growing very rapidly, and as the business grew, the transactions grew exponentially.
During the 1960s and 1970s, venture capital firms focused their investment activity primarily on starting and expanding companies. More often than not, these companies were exploiting breakthroughs in electronic, medical, or data-processing technology. As a result, venture capital came to be almost synonymous with technology finance. An early West Coast venture capital company was Draper and Johnson Investment Company, formed in 1962
It is commonly noted that the first venture-backed startup is 
It was also in the 1960s that the common form of 
The growth of the venture capital industry was fueled by the emergence of the independent investment firms on 
Throughout the 1970s, a group of private equity firms, focused primarily on venture capital investments, would be founded that would become the model for later leveraged buyout and venture capital investment firms. In 1973, with the number of new venture capital firms increasing, leading venture capitalists formed the National Venture Capital Association (NVCA). The NVCA was to serve as the 
It was not until 1978 that venture capital experienced its first major fundraising year, as the industry raised approximately $750 million. With the passage of the 
The public successes of the venture capital industry in the 1970s and early 1980s (e.g., 
The growth of the industry was hampered by sharply declining returns, and certain venture firms began posting losses for the first time.  In addition to the increased competition among firms, several other factors affected returns. The market for initial public offerings cooled in the mid-1980s before collapsing after the stock market crash in 1987, and foreign corporations, particularly from 
In response to the changing conditions, corporations that had sponsored in-house venture investment arms, including 
By the end of the 1980s, venture capital returns were relatively low, particularly in comparison with their emerging 
After a shakeout of venture capital managers, the more successful firms retrenched, focusing increasingly on improving operations at their portfolio companies rather than continuously making new investments.  Results would begin to turn very attractive, successful and would ultimately generate the venture capital boom of the 1990s. 
The late 1990s were a boom time for venture capital, as firms on 
The 
Although the post-boom years represent just a small fraction of the peak levels of venture investment reached in 2000, they still represent an increase over the levels of investment from 1980 through 1995. As a percentage of GDP, venture investment was 0.058% in 1994, peaked at 1.087% (nearly 19 times the 1994 level) in 2000 and ranged from 0.164% to 0.182% in 2003 and 2004. The revival of an 
Venture capital funds, which were responsible for much of the fundraising volume in 2000 (the height of the 
Obtaining venture capital is substantially different from raising debt or a loan. Lenders have a legal right to interest on a loan and repayment of the capital irrespective of the success or failure of a business. Venture capital is invested in exchange for an equity stake in the business. The return of the venture capitalist as a shareholder depends on the growth and profitability of the business. This return is generally earned when the venture capitalist "exits" by selling its shareholdings when the business is sold to another owner.

Venture capitalists are typically very selective in deciding what to invest in, with a Stanford survey of venture capitalists revealing that 100 companies were considered for every company receiving financing.

Because investments are 
Because there are no public exchanges listing their securities, private companies meet venture capital firms and other private equity investors in several ways, including warm referrals from the investors' trusted sources and other business contacts; investor conferences and symposia; and summits where companies pitch directly to investor groups in face-to-face meetings, including a variant known as "Speed Venturing", which is akin to speed-dating for capital, where the investor decides within 10 minutes whether he wants a follow-up meeting. In addition, some new private online networks are emerging to provide additional opportunities for meeting investors.
This need for high returns makes venture funding an expensive capital source for companies, and most suitable for businesses having large up-front 
If a company does have the qualities venture capitalists seek including a solid business plan, a good management team, investment and passion from the founders, a good potential to exit the investment before the end of their funding cycle, and target minimum returns in excess of 40% per year, it will find it easier to raise venture capital.

There are typically six stages of 
Between the first round and the fourth round, venture-backed companies may also seek to take 
A venture capitalist is a person who makes venture investments, and these venture capitalists are expected to bring managerial and technical expertise as well as capital to their investments. A venture capital fund refers to a 
A core skill within VC is the ability to identify novel or disruptive technologies that have the potential to generate high commercial returns at an early stage. By definition, VCs also take a role in managing entrepreneurial companies at an early stage, thus adding skills as well as capital, thereby differentiating VC from buy-out private equity, which typically invest in companies with proven revenue, and thereby potentially realizing much higher rates of returns. Inherent in realizing abnormally high rates of returns is the risk of losing all of one's investment in a given startup company. As a consequence, most venture capital investments are done in a pool format, where several investors combine their investments into one large fund that invests in many different startup companies. By investing in the pool format, the investors are spreading out their risk to many different investments instead of taking the chance of putting all of their money in one start up firm.

Venture capital firms are typically structured as 
Venture capitalist firms differ in their motivations
Venture capital funds are generally three in types:
1. Angel investors 
2. Financial VCs 
3. Strategic VCs

Some of the factors that influence VC decisions include:

Within the venture capital industry, the general partners and other investment professionals of the venture capital firm are often referred to as "venture capitalists" or "VCs".  Typical career backgrounds vary, but, broadly speaking, venture capitalists come from either an operational or a finance background.  Venture capitalists with an operational background (
Although the titles are not entirely uniform from firm to firm, other positions at venture capital firms include:

Most 
In such a fund, the investors have a fixed commitment to the fund that is initially unfunded and subsequently "called down" by the venture capital fund over time as the fund makes its investments. There are substantial penalties for a limited partner (or investor) that fails to participate in a 
It can take anywhere from a month or so to several years for venture capitalists to raise money from limited partners for their fund. At the time when all of the money has been raised, the fund is said to be closed, and the 10-year lifetime begins.  Some funds have partial closes when one half (or some other amount) of the fund has been raised. The 
From investors' point of view, funds can be: (1) 
Venture capitalists are compensated through a combination of management fees and 
Because a fund may run out of capital prior to the end of its life, larger venture capital firms usually have several overlapping funds at the same time; doing so lets the larger firm keep specialists in all stages of the development of firms almost constantly engaged.  Smaller firms tend to thrive or fail with their initial industry contacts; by the time the fund cashes out, an entirely new generation of technologies and people is ascending, whom the general partners may not know well, and so it is prudent to reassess and shift industries or personnel rather than attempt to simply invest more in the industry or people the partners already know.

Because of the strict requirements venture capitalists have for potential investments, many entrepreneurs seek 
Furthermore, many venture capital firms will only seriously evaluate an investment in a 
Equity crowdfunding
In Europe and India, 
In industries where assets can be 
In addition to traditional venture capital and angel networks, groups have emerged, which allow groups of small investors or entrepreneurs themselves to compete in a privatized business plan competition where the group itself serves as the investor through a democratic process.
Law firms are also increasingly acting as an intermediary between clients seeking venture capital and the firms providing it.
Other forms include 
Venture capital is also associated with job creation (accounting for 2% of US GDP),
Babson College
For comparison, a UC Davis study focusing on large public companies in California found 49.5% with at least one female 
Venture capital, as an industry, originated in the United States, and American firms have traditionally been the largest participants in venture deals with the bulk of venture capital being deployed in American companies.  However, increasingly, non-US venture investment is growing, and the number and size of non-US venture capitalists have been expanding.

Venture capital has been used as a tool for 
In the year of 2008, while VC funding were still majorly dominated by U.S. money ($28.8 billion invested in over 2550 deals in 2008), compared to international fund investments ($13.4 billion invested elsewhere), there has been an average 5% growth in the venture capital deals outside the US, mainly in 
VC funding has been shown to be positively related to a country's 
Venture capitalists invested some $29.1 billion in 3,752 deals in the U.S. through the fourth quarter of 2011, according to a 
According to a report by Dow Jones VentureSource, venture capital funding fell to $6.4 billion in the US in the  first quarter of 2013, an 11.8% drop from the first quarter of 2012, and a 20.8% decline from 2011. Venture firms have added $4.2 billion into their funds this year, down from $6.3 billion in the first quarter of 2013, but up from $2.6 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The Venture Capital industry in Mexico is a fast-growing sector in the country that, with the support of institutions and private funds, is estimated to reach US$100 billion invested by 2018.
In Israel, high-tech entrepreneurship and venture capital have flourished well beyond the country's relative size. As it has very little natural resources and, historically has been forced to build its economy on knowledge-based industries, its VC industry has rapidly developed, and nowadays has about 70 active venture capital funds, of which 14 international VCs with Israeli offices, and additional 220 international funds which actively invest in Israel. In addition, as of 2010, Israel led the world in venture capital invested per capita.  Israel attracted $170 per person compared to $75 in the USA.
Canadian technology companies have attracted interest from the global venture capital community partially as a result of generous tax incentive through the 
Canada also has a fairly unusual form of venture capital generation in its 
Many Swiss start-ups are university spin-offs, in particular from its federal institutes of technology in 
Europe has a large and growing number of active venture firms. Capital raised in the region in 2005, including 
European venture capital investments in 2015 increased by 5% year-on-year to €3.8 billion, with 2,836 companies backed. The amount invested increased across all stages led by seed investments with an increase of 18%. Most capital was concentrated in life sciences (34%), computer & consumer electronics (20%) and communications (19%) sectors, according to Invest Europe's annual data.
In 2012, in 
A study published in early 2013 showed that contrary to popular belief, European startups backed by venture capital do not perform worse than US counterparts.
Leading early-stage venture capital investors in Europe include Mark Tluszcz of Mangrove Capital Partners and Danny Rimer of 
As of March 2019, there are 130 active VC firms in 
India
China
Vietnam
Singapore
The Middle East and North Africa (MENA) venture capital industry is an early stage of development but growing. The 
The Southern African venture capital industry is developing. The South African Government and Revenue Service is following the international trend of using tax efficient vehicles to propel economic growth and job creation through venture capital. Section 12 J of the 
Currently, there are not many venture capital funds in operation and it is a small community; however the number of venture funds are steadily increasing with new incentives slowly coming in from government. Funds are difficult to come by and due to the limited funding, companies are more likely to receive funding if they can demonstrate initial sales or traction and the potential for significant growth.  The majority of the venture capital in Sub-Saharan Africa is centered on South Africa and Kenya.

Unlike 
Limited partners
There are several strict guidelines regulating those that deal in venture capital.  Namely, they are not allowed to advertise or solicit business in any form as per the 



 
A 
Other definitions of the term "currency" are discussed in their respective synonymous articles 
Originally money was a form of receipt, representing grain stored in temple granaries in 
In this first stage of currency, metals were used as symbols to represent value stored in the form of commodities. This formed the basis of trade in the 
It is thought that the increase in piracy and raiding associated with the 
These
Most major economies using coinage had several tiers of coins of different values, made of copper, silver, and gold. Gold coins were the most valuable and were used for large purchases, payment of the military and backing of state activities. Units of account were often defined as the value of a particular type of gold coin. Silver coins were used for midsized transactions, and sometimes also defined a unit of account, while coins of copper or silver, or some mixture of them (see 
In 
At around the same time in the 
In Europe, paper money was first introduced on a regular basis in 
The advantages of paper currency were numerous: it reduced the need to transport gold and silver, which was risky; it facilitated loans of gold or silver at interest, since the underlying 
But there were also disadvantages. First, since a note has no intrinsic value, there was nothing to stop issuing authorities from printing more notes than they had specie to back them with. Second, because it increased the money supply, it increased inflationary pressures, a fact observed by 
At that time, both silver and gold were considered a 
By 1900, most of the industrializing nations were on some form of 
A 
The currency usage is based on the concept of 
The 
Distinct from centrally controlled government-issued currencies, private decentralized trust networks support alternative currencies such as 
The currency may be Internet-based and digital, for instance, 
In most cases, a 
An 
In cases where a country has control of its own currency, that control is exercised either by a 
Several countries can use the same name for their own separate currencies (for example, a 
Each currency typically has a main currency unit (the 
Mauritania
Convertibility of a currency determines the ability of an individual, corporation or government to convert its local currency to another currency or vice versa with or without central bank/government intervention. Based on the above restrictions or free and readily conversion features, currencies are classified as:

In economics, a local currency is a currency not backed by a national government and intended to trade only in a small area. Advocates such as 
Local currencies can also come into being when there is economic turmoil involving the national currency. An example of this is the Argentinian economic crisis of 2002 in which 
One of the best examples of a local currency is the original 
The following table are estimates of the 15 most frequently used currencies in world payments from 2012 to 2018 by 
Related concepts


Accounting units


Lists





In finance, a 
Derivatives are contracts between two parties that specify conditions (especially the dates, resulting values and definitions of the underlying variables, the parties' contractual obligations, and the 
From the economic point of view, financial derivatives are cash flows, that are conditioned stochastically and discounted to present value. The market risk inherent in the underlying asset is attached to the financial derivative through contractual agreements and hence can be traded separately.
There are two groups of derivative contracts: the privately traded 
Derivatives are more common in the modern era, but their origins trace back several centuries. One of the oldest derivatives is rice futures, which have been traded on the 
Derivatives may broadly be categorized as "lock" or "option" products. Lock products (such as 
Derivatives can be used either for risk management (i.e. to "hedge" by providing offsetting compensation in case of an undesired event, a kind of "insurance") or for speculation (i.e. making a financial "bet"). This distinction is important because the former is a prudent aspect of operations and financial management for many firms across many industries; the latter offers managers and investors a risky opportunity to increase profit, which may not be properly disclosed to stakeholders.

Along with many other financial products and services, derivatives reform is an element of the 
To give an idea of the size of the derivative market, 
However, these are "notional" values, and some economists say that this value greatly exaggerates the market value and the true credit risk faced by the parties involved. For example, in 2010, while the aggregate of OTC derivatives exceeded $600 trillion, the value of the market was estimated much lower, at $21 trillion. The credit risk equivalent of the derivative contracts was estimated at $3.3 trillion.
Still, even these scaled down figures represent huge amounts of money. For perspective, the budget for total expenditure of the United States government during 2012 was $3.5 trillion,
And for one type of derivative at least, Credit Default Swaps (CDS), for which the inherent risk is considered high
Derivatives are used for the following:

Lock products are theoretically valued at zero at the time of execution and thus do not typically require an up-front exchange between the parties. Based upon movements in the underlying asset over time, however, the value of the contract will fluctuate, and the derivative may be either an asset (i.e., "
Option products have immediate value at the outset because they provide specified protection (
Derivatives allow risk related to the price of the underlying asset to be transferred from one party to another. For example, a 
From another perspective, the farmer and the miller both reduce a risk and acquire a risk when they sign the futures contract: the farmer reduces the risk that the price of wheat will fall below the price specified in the contract and acquires the risk that the price of wheat will rise above the price specified in the contract (thereby losing additional income that he could have earned). The miller, on the other hand, acquires the risk that the price of wheat will fall below the price specified in the contract (thereby paying more in the future than he otherwise would have) and reduces the risk that the price of wheat will rise above the price specified in the contract. In this sense, one party is the insurer (risk taker) for one type of risk, and the counter-party is the insurer (risk taker) for another type of risk.

Hedging also occurs when an individual or institution buys an asset (such as a commodity, a bond that has 
Derivatives trading of this kind may serve the financial interests of certain particular businesses.
Derivatives can be used to acquire risk, rather than to hedge against risk. Thus, some individuals and institutions will enter into a derivative contract to speculate on the value of the underlying asset, betting that the party seeking insurance will be wrong about the future value of the underlying asset. Speculators look to buy an asset in the future at a low price according to a derivative contract when the future market price is high, or to sell an asset in the future at a high price according to a derivative contract when the future market price is less.

Individuals and institutions may also look for 
Speculative trading in derivatives gained a great deal of notoriety in 1995 when 
The true proportion of derivatives contracts used for hedging purposes is unknown,
In broad terms, there are two groups of derivative contracts, which are distinguished by the way they are traded in the market:

According to the 
Some of the common variants of derivative contracts are as follows:

Some common examples of these derivatives are the following:

A 
Separate 
A 
[47]
In finance, a 
The 
A closely related contract is a 
In 
While the futures contract specifies a trade taking place in the future, the purpose of the futures exchange is to act as intermediary and mitigate the risk of default by either party in the intervening period. For this reason, the futures exchange requires both parties to put up an initial amount of cash (performance bond), the 
A closely related contract is a 
A 
The shares of subprime MBSs issued by various structures, such as CMOs, are not identical but rather issued as 
In 
Although options valuation has been studied since the 19th century, the contemporary approach is based on the 
Options contracts have been known for many centuries. However, both trading activity and academic interest increased when, as from 1973, options were issued with standardized terms and traded through a guaranteed clearing house at the 
A 
The cash flows are calculated over a 
Swaps were first introduced to the public in 1981 when 
Some of the salient economic functions of the derivative market include:

In a nutshell, there is a substantial increase in savings and investment in the long run due to augmented activities by derivative 
Two common measures of value are:

For exchange-traded derivatives, market price is usually transparent (often published in real time by the exchange, based on all the current bids and offers placed on that particular contract at any one time). Complications can arise with OTC or floor-traded contracts though, as trading is handled manually, making it difficult to automatically broadcast prices. In particular with OTC contracts, there is no central exchange to collate and disseminate prices.

The arbitrage-free price for a derivatives contract can be complex, and there are many different variables to consider. Arbitrage-free pricing is a central topic of 
However, for options and more complex derivatives, pricing involves developing a complex pricing model: understanding the 
OTC represents the biggest challenge in using models to price derivatives. Since these contracts are not publicly traded, no market price is available to validate the theoretical valuation. Most of the model's results are input-dependent (meaning the final price depends heavily on how we derive the pricing inputs).
Derivatives are often subject to the following criticisms:

According to 
The use of derivatives can result in large losses because of the use of 
Some derivatives (especially swaps) expose investors to 
Derivatives typically have a 
Under US law and the laws of most other developed countries, derivatives have special legal exemptions that make them a particularly attractive legal form to extend credit. The strong creditor protections afforded to derivatives counterparties, in combination with their complexity and lack of transparency however, can cause capital markets to underprice credit risk. This can contribute to credit booms, and increase systemic risks. Indeed, the use of derivatives to conceal credit risk from third parties while protecting derivative counterparties contributed to the financial crisis of 2008 in the United States.

In the context of a 2010 examination of the 
For legislators and committees responsible for financial reform related to derivatives in the United States and elsewhere, distinguishing between hedging and speculative derivatives activities has been a nontrivial challenge. The distinction is critical because regulation should help to isolate and curtail speculation with derivatives, especially for "systemically significant" institutions whose default could be large enough to threaten the entire financial system. At the same time, the legislation should allow for responsible parties to hedge risk without unduly tying up working capital as collateral that firms may better employ elsewhere in their operations and investment.
Over-the-counter dealing will be less common as the 
Nonetheless, the above and other challenges of the rule-making process have delayed full enactment of aspects of the legislation relating to derivatives. The challenges are further complicated by the necessity to orchestrate globalized financial reform among the nations that comprise the world's major financial markets, a primary responsibility of the 
In the U.S., by February 2012 the combined effort of the SEC and CFTC had produced over 70 proposed and final derivatives rules.
In November 2012, the SEC and regulators from Australia, Brazil, the European Union, Hong Kong, Japan, Ontario, Quebec, Singapore, and Switzerland met to discuss reforming the OTC derivatives market, as had been agreed by leaders at the 
On December 20, 2013 the CFTC provided information on its swaps regulation "comparability" determinations. The release addressed the CFTC's cross-border compliance exceptions. Specifically it addressed which entity level and in some cases transaction-level requirements in six jurisdictions (Australia, Canada, the European Union, Hong Kong, Japan, and Switzerland) it found comparable to its own rules, thus permitting non-US swap dealers, major swap participants, and the foreign branches of US Swap Dealers and major swap participants in these jurisdictions to comply with local rules in lieu of Commission rules.
Mandatory reporting regulations are being finalized in a number of countries, such as 
DTCC

In 
Contracts are negotiated at 
The first futures contracts were negotiated for agricultural commodities, and later futures contracts were negotiated for natural resources such as oil. 
The original use of futures contracts was to mitigate the risk of price or exchange rate movements by allowing parties to fix prices or rates in advance for future transactions.  This could be advantageous when (for example) a party expects to receive payment in foreign currency in the future, and wishes to guard against an unfavorable movement of the currency in the interval before payment is received.

However, futures contracts also offer opportunities for 
The Dutch pioneered several financial instruments and helped lay the foundations of the modern financial system.
The 
The 1972 creation of the 
Although futures contracts are oriented towards a future time point, their main purpose is to mitigate the risk of default by either party in the intervening period. In this vein, the futures exchange requires both parties to put up initial cash, or a performance bond, known as the 
To mitigate the risk of default, the product is marked to market on a daily basis where the difference between the initial agreed-upon price and the actual daily futures price is re-evaluated daily. This is sometimes known as the variation margin, where the futures exchange will draw money out of the losing party's margin account and put it into that of the other party, ensuring the correct loss or profit is reflected daily.

If the margin account goes below a certain value set by the exchange, then a margin call is made and the account owner must replenish the margin account. This process is known as 
To minimize 
To minimize 
Margin requirements are waived or reduced in some cases for 
Clearing margin
Customer margin
Initial margin
If a position involves an exchange-traded product, the amount or percentage of initial margin is set by the exchange concerned.

In case of loss or if the value of the initial margin is being eroded, the broker will make a margin call in order to restore the amount of initial margin available. Often referred to as “variation margin”, margin called for this reason is usually done on a daily basis, however, in times of high volatility a broker can make a margin call or calls intra-day.

Calls for margin are usually expected to be paid and received on the same day. If not, the broker has the right to close sufficient positions to meet the amount called by way of margin. After the position is closed-out the client is liable for any resulting deficit in the client’s account.

Some U.S. exchanges also use the term “maintenance margin”, which in effect defines by how much the value of the initial margin can reduce before a margin call is made. However, most non-US brokers only use the term “initial margin” and “variation margin”.

The Initial Margin requirement is established by the Futures exchange, in contrast to other securities' Initial Margin (which is set by the Federal Reserve in the U.S. Markets).

A futures account is marked to market daily. If the margin drops below the margin maintenance requirement established by the exchange listing the futures, a margin call will be issued to bring the account back up to the required level.

Maintenance margin
Margin-equity ratio
Performance bond margin
Return on margin
Settlement is the act of 
Expiry
When the deliverable asset exists in plentiful supply, or may be freely created, then the price of a futures contract is determined via 
Arbitrage arguments ("
Thus, assuming constant rates, for a simple, non-dividend paying asset, the value of the futures/forward price, 
or, with 
This relationship may be modified for storage costs, dividends, dividend yields, and convenience yields.

In a perfect market the relationship between futures and spot prices depends only on the above variables; in practice there are various market imperfections (transaction costs, differential borrowing and lending rates, restrictions on short selling) that prevent complete arbitrage. Thus, the futures price in fact varies within arbitrage boundaries around the theoretical price.

When the deliverable commodity is not in plentiful supply (or when it does not yet exist) rational pricing cannot be applied, as the arbitrage mechanism is not applicable. Here the price of the futures is determined by today's 
In a deep and liquid market, supply and demand would be expected to balance out at a price which represents an 
By contrast, in a shallow and illiquid market, or in a market in which large quantities of the deliverable asset have been deliberately withheld from market participants (an illegal action known as 
The expectation based relationship will also hold in a no-arbitrage setting when we take expectations with respect to the 
The situation where the price of a commodity for future delivery is higher than the 
There are many different kinds of futures contracts, reflecting the many different kinds of "tradable" assets about which the contract may be based such as commodities, securities (such as 
Trading on 
Contracts on financial instruments were introduced in the 1970s by the 
Most futures contracts codes are five characters. The first two characters identify the contract type, the third character identifies the month and the last two characters identify the year.

Third (month) futures contract codes are

Example: CLX14 is a Crude Oil (CL), November (X) 2014 (14) contract.
Futures traders are traditionally placed in one of two groups: 
Hedgers typically include producers and 
For example, in traditional 
Those that buy or sell commodity futures need to be careful. If a company buys contracts hedging against price increases, but in fact the market price of the commodity is substantially lower at time of delivery, they could find themselves disastrously non-competitive (for example see: 
Speculators typically fall into three categories: position traders, 
An example that has both hedge and speculative notions involves a 
The social utility of futures markets is considered to be mainly in the transfer of 
In many cases, 
Investors can either take on the role of option seller (or "writer") or the option buyer. Option sellers are generally seen as taking on more risk because they are contractually obligated to take the opposite futures position if the options buyer exercises their right to the futures position specified in the option. The price of an option is determined by supply and demand principles and consists of the option premium, or the price paid to the option seller for offering the option and taking on risk.
All futures transactions in the 
The CFTC publishes weekly reports containing details of the 
Following Björk
A closely related contract is a 
Unlike an 
While futures and 
Forwards have credit risk, but futures do not because a clearing house guarantees against default risk by taking both sides of the trade and marking to market their positions every night.
Forwards are basically unregulated, while futures contracts are regulated at the federal government level.

The 
Futures are always traded on an 
Futures are 
Forwards do not have a standard. They may transact only on the settlement date. More typical would be for the parties to agree to true up, for example, every quarter. The fact that forwards are not margined daily means that, due to movements in the price of the underlying asset, a large differential can build up between the forward's delivery price and the settlement price, and in any event, an unrealized gain (loss) can build up.

Again, this differs from futures which get 'trued-up' typically daily by a comparison of the market value of the future to the collateral securing the contract to keep it in line with the brokerage margin requirements. This true-ing up occurs by the "loss" party providing additional collateral; so if the buyer of the contract incurs a drop in value, the shortfall or variation margin would typically be shored up by the investor wiring or depositing additional cash in the brokerage account.

In a forward though, the spread in exchange rates is not trued up regularly but, rather, it builds up as unrealized gain (loss) depending on which side of the trade being discussed. This means that entire unrealized gain (loss) becomes realized at the time of delivery (or as what typically occurs, the time the contract is closed prior to expiration)—assuming the parties must transact at the underlying currency's spot price to facilitate receipt/delivery.

The result is that forwards have higher 
In most cases involving institutional investors, the daily variation margin settlement guidelines for futures call for actual money movement only above some insignificant amount to avoid wiring back and forth small sums of cash. The threshold amount for daily futures variation margin for institutional investors is often $1,000.

The situation for forwards, however, where no daily true-up takes place in turn creates 
The margining of futures eliminates much of this credit risk by forcing the holders to update daily to the price of an equivalent forward purchased that day. This means that there will usually be very little additional money due on the final day to settle the futures contract: only the final day's gain or loss, not the gain or loss over the life of the contract.

In addition, the daily futures-settlement failure risk is borne by an exchange, rather than an individual party, further limiting credit risk in futures.

Example:
A forward-holder, however, may pay nothing until settlement on the final day, potentially building up a large balance; this may be reflected in the mark by an allowance for credit risk. So, except for tiny effects of convexity bias (due to earning or paying interest on margin), futures and forwards with equal delivery prices result in the same total loss or gain, but holders of futures experience that loss/gain in daily increments which track the forward's daily price changes, while the forward's spot price converges to the settlement price. Thus, while under 
Note that, due to the 
With an exchange-traded future, the clearing house interposes itself on every trade. Thus there is no risk of counterparty default. The only risk is that the clearing house defaults (e.g. become bankrupt), which is considered very unlikely.








Life insurance
Life policies are legal contracts and the terms of the contract describe the limitations of the insured events. Specific exclusions are often written into the contract to limit the liability of the insurer; common examples are claims relating to suicide, fraud, war, riot, and civil commotion.

Modern life insurance bears some similarity to the 
Life-based contracts tend to fall into two major categories:
An early form of life insurance dates to 
The first 
His disciple, 
Mores also gave the name 
The sale of life insurance in the U.S. began in the 1760s. The 
The person responsible for making payments for a policy is the policy owner, while the insured is the person whose death will trigger payment of the death benefit. The owner and insured may or may not be the same person. For example, if Joe buys a policy on his own life, he is both the owner and the insured. But if Jane, his wife, buys a policy on Joe's life, she is the owner and he is the insured. The policy owner is the guarantor and he will be the person to pay for the policy. The insured is a participant in the contract, but not necessarily a party to it.

The beneficiary receives policy proceeds upon the insured person's death. The owner designates the beneficiary, but the beneficiary is not a party to the policy. The owner can change the beneficiary unless the policy has an irrevocable beneficiary designation. If a policy has an irrevocable beneficiary, any beneficiary changes, policy assignments, or cash value borrowing would require the agreement of the original beneficiary.

In cases where the policy owner is not the insured (also referred to as the 
Special exclusions may apply, such as suicide clauses, whereby the policy becomes null and void if the insured commits 
The face amount of the policy is the initial amount that the policy will pay at the death of the insured or when the policy 
The insurance company calculates the policy prices (premiums) at a level sufficient to fund claims, cover administrative costs, and provide a profit. The cost of insurance is determined using mortality tables calculated by 
In the 1980s and 1990s, the SOA 1975-80 Basic Select & Ultimate tables were the typical reference points, while the 2001 VBT and 2001 CSO tables were published more recently. As well as the basic parameters of age and gender, the newer tables include separate mortality tables for 
The mortality tables provide a baseline for the cost of insurance, but the health and family history of the individual applicant is also taken into account (except in the case of Group policies). This investigation and resulting evaluation is termed 
Specific factors that may be considered by underwriters include:
Based on the above and additional factors, applicants will be placed into one of several classes of health ratings which will determine the premium paid in exchange for insurance at that particular carrier.
Life insurance companies in the United States support the Medical Information Bureau (MIB),
Automated Life Underwriting is a technology solution which is designed to perform all or some of the screening functions traditionally completed by underwriters, and thus seeks to reduce the work effort, time and/or data necessary to underwrite a life insurance application.
The mortality of underwritten persons rises much more quickly than the general population. At the end of 10 years, the mortality of that 25-year-old, non-smoking male is 0.66/1000/year. Consequently, in a group of one thousand 25-year-old males with a $100,000 policy, all of average health, a life insurance company would have to collect approximately $50 a year from each participant to cover the relatively few expected claims. (0.35 to 0.66 expected deaths in each year × $100,000 payout per death = $35 per policy.) Other costs, such as administrative and sales expenses, also need to be considered when setting the premiums. A 10-year policy for a 25-year-old non-smoking male with preferred medical history may get offers as low as $90 per year for a $100,000 policy in the competitive US life insurance market.

Most of the revenue received by insurance companies consists of premiums, but revenue from investing the premiums forms an important source of profit for most life insurance companies. 
In the United States, life insurance companies are never legally required to provide coverage to everyone, with the exception of 
Many companies separate applicants into four general categories. These categories are 
People in the tobacco category typically have to pay higher premiums due to the higher mortality.  Recent US mortality tables predict that roughly 0.35 in 1,000 non-smoking males aged 25 will die during the first year of a policy.
Upon the insured's death, the insurer requires acceptable proof of death before it pays the claim. If the insured's death is suspicious and the policy amount is large, the insurer may investigate the circumstances surrounding the death before deciding whether it has an obligation to pay the claim.

Payment from the policy may be as a lump sum or as an 
The specific uses of the terms “insurance” and “assurance” are sometimes confused. In general, in jurisdictions where both terms are used, “insurance” refers to providing coverage for an event that 
Life insurance may be divided into two basic classes: temporary and permanent; or the following subclasses: term, universal, 
Term assurance
Mortgage life insurance
Group life insurance
Permanent life insurance
The three basic types of permanent insurance are 
Whole life insurance provides lifetime coverage for a set premium amount (see main article for a full explanation of the many variations and options).

Universal life insurance (ULl) is a relatively new insurance product, intended to combine permanent insurance coverage with greater flexibility in premium payments, along with the potential for greater growth of cash values. There are several types of universal life insurance policies, including 
Universal life insurance policies have cash values. Paid-in premiums increase their cash values; administrative and other costs reduce their cash values.

Universal life insurance addresses the perceived disadvantages of whole life—namely that premiums and death benefits are fixed. With universal life, both the premiums and death benefit are flexible. With the exception of guaranteed-death-benefit universal life policies, universal life policies trade their greater flexibility off for fewer guarantees.

“Flexible death benefit” means the policy owner can choose to decrease the death benefit. The death benefit can also be increased by the policy owner, usually requiring new underwriting. Another feature of flexible death benefit is the ability to choose option A or option B death benefits and to change those options over the course of the life of the insured. Option A is often referred to as a "level death benefit"; death benefits remain level for the life of the insured, and premiums are lower than policies with Option B death benefits, which pay the policy's cash value—i.e., a face amount plus earnings/interest. If the cash value grows over time, the death benefits do too. If the cash value declines, the death benefit also declines. Option B policies normally feature higher premiums than option A policies.

The endowment policy is a life insurance contract designed to pay a lump sum after a specific term (on its 'maturity') or on death. Typical maturities are ten, fifteen or twenty years up to a certain age limit. Some policies also pay out in the case of critical illness.

Policies are typically traditional with-profits or unit-linked (including those with unitized with-profits funds).

Endowments can be cashed in early (or surrendered) and the holder then receives the surrender value which is determined by the insurance company depending on how long the policy has been running and how much has been paid into it.

Accidental death insurance is a type of limited life insurance that is designed to cover the insured should they die as the result of an accident. “Accidents” run the gamut from abrasions to catastrophes but normally do not include deaths resulting from non-accident-related health problems or suicide. Because they only cover accidents, these policies are much less expensive than other life insurance policies.

Such insurance can also be 
Accidental death and AD&D policies 
Accidental death insurance can also supplement standard life insurance as a 
Insurance companies have in recent years developed products for niche markets, most notably targeting seniors in an ageing population. These are often low to moderate face value whole life insurance policies, allowing senior citizens to purchase affordable insurance later in life. This may also be marketed as 
Health questions can vary substantially between exam and no-exam policies. It may be possible for individuals with certain conditions to qualify for one type of coverage and not another.
Pre-need life insurance policies
Riders
Joint life insurance
These are unique insurance plans which are basically a mutual fund and term insurance plan rolled into one. The investor doesn't participate in the profits of the plan per se, but gets returns based on the returns on the funds he or she had chosen.

See the main article for a full explanation of the various features and variations.

Some policies afford the policyholder a share of the profits of the insurance company—these are termed 
With-profits policies are used as a form of 
According to the section 80C of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (of Indian penal code) premiums paid towards a valid life insurance policy can be exempted from the taxable income. Along with life insurance premium, section 80C allows exemption for other financial instruments such as Employee Provident Fund (EPF), Public Provident Fund (PPF), Equity Linked Savings Scheme (ELSS), National Savings Certificate (NSC), health insurance premium are some of them. The total amount that can be exempted from the taxable income for section 80C is capped at a maximum of INR 150,000.
Where the life insurance is provided through a superannuation fund, contributions made to fund insurance premiums are tax deductible for self-employed persons and substantially self-employed persons and employers. However where life insurance is held outside of the superannuation environment, the premiums are generally not tax deductible. For insurance through a superannuation fund, the annual deductible contributions to the superannuation funds are subject to age limits. These limits apply to employers making deductible contributions. They also apply to self-employed persons and substantially self-employed persons. Included in these overall limits are insurance premiums. This means that no additional deductible contributions can be made for the funding of insurance premiums. Insurance premiums can, however, be funded by undeducted contributions. For further information on deductible contributions see “under what conditions can an employer claim a deduction for contributions made on behalf of their employees?” and “what is the definition of substantially self-employed?”. The insurance premium paid by the superannuation fund can be claimed by the fund as a deduction to reduce the 15% tax on contributions and earnings. (Ref: ITAA 1936, Section 279).
Premiums paid by a 
Premiums paid by the policy owner are normally not deductible for federal and state 
Cash value increases within the policy are not subject to income taxes unless certain events occur. For this reason, insurance policies can be a legal and legitimate 
The tax ramifications of life insurance are complex. The policy owner would be well advised to carefully consider them. As always, both the 
In 2018, a 
Premiums are not usually deductible against income tax or 
Non-investment life policies do not normally attract either income tax or 
Qualifying status is determined at the outset of the policy if the contract meets certain criteria. Essentially, long term contracts (10+ years) tend to be qualifying policies and the proceeds are free from income tax and capital gains tax. Single premium contracts and those running for a short term are subject to income tax depending upon the marginal rate in the year a gain is made. All UK insurers pay a special rate of corporation tax on the profits from their life book; this is deemed as meeting the lower rate (20% in 2005-06) of liability for policyholders. Therefore, a policyholder who is a higher-rate taxpayer (40% in 2005-06), or becomes one through the transaction, must pay tax on the gain at the difference between the higher and the lower rate. This gain is reduced by applying a calculation called 
The proceeds of a life policy will be included in the estate for 
Although available before April 2006, from this date 
Stranger-originated life insurance
Although some aspects of the application process (such as 
Recently, 
On April 17, 2016, a report by 





In the United States, an 
Although annuities have existed in their present form only for a few decades, the idea of paying out a stream of income to an individual or family dates back to the Roman Empire. The Latin word 
One of the early recorded uses of annuities in the United States was by the 
Annuity contracts in the United States are defined by the 
There are two possible phases for an annuity, one phase in which the customer deposits and accumulates money into an account (the deferral phase), and another phase in which customers receive payments for some period of time (the annuity or income phase). During this latter phase, the insurance company makes income payments that may be set for a stated period of time, such as five years, or continue until the death of the customer(s) (the "annuitant(s)") named in the contract. Annuitization over a lifetime can have a death benefit guarantee over a certain period of time, such as ten years. Annuity contracts with a deferral phase always have an annuity phase and are called deferred annuities. An annuity contract may also be structured so that it has only the annuity phase; such a contract is called an immediate annuity.  Note this is not always the case.

The term "annuity," as used in financial theory, is most closely related to what is today called an 
The overarching characteristic of the immediate annuity is that it is a vehicle for distributing 
When a deferred annuity is annuitized, it works like an immediate annuity from that point on, but with a lower cost basis and thus more of the payment is taxed.

This type of immediate annuity pays the annuitant for a designated number of years (i.e., a period certain) and is used to fund a need that will end when the period is up (for example, it might be used to fund the premiums for a term life insurance policy).  Thus the person may outlive the number of years the annuity will pay.

A life or lifetime immediate annuity is used to provide an income for the life of the annuitant similar to a 
A 
A life annuity, ideally, can reduce the "problem" faced by a person when they don't know how long they will live, and so they don't know the optimal speed at which to spend their savings. Life annuities with payments indexed to the Consumer Price Index might be an acceptable solution to this problem, but there is only a thin market for them in North America.

For an additional expense (either by way of an increase in payments (premium) or a decrease in benefits), an annuity or benefit 
The pure life annuity can have harsh consequences for the annuitant who dies before recovering his or her investment in the contract. Such a situation, called a forfeiture, can be mitigated by the addition of a period-certain feature under which the annuity issuer is required to make annuity payments for at least a certain number of years; if the annuitant outlives the specified period certain, annuity payments continue until the annuitant's death, and if the annuitant dies before the expiration of the period certain, the annuitant's estate or beneficiary is entitled to the remaining payments certain. The tradeoff between the pure life annuity and the life-with-period-certain annuity is that the annuity payment for the latter is smaller. A viable alternative to the life-with-period-certain annuity is to purchase a single-premium life policy that would cover the lost premium in the annuity.

Impaired-life annuities for 
Life annuities are priced based on the probability of the annuitant surviving to receive the payments. 
The second usage for the term 
All varieties of deferred annuities owned by individuals have one thing in common: any increase in account values is not taxed until those gains are withdrawn. This is also known as tax-deferred growth.

A deferred annuity which grows by interest rate earnings alone is called a 
A new category of deferred annuity, called the 
Deferred annuities in the United States have the advantage that taxation of all capital gains and ordinary income is deferred until withdrawn. In theory, such tax-deferred compounding allows more money to be put to work while the savings are accumulating, leading to higher returns. A disadvantage, however, is that when amounts held under a deferred annuity are withdrawn or inherited, the interest/gains are immediately taxed as ordinary income.

A variety of features and guarantees have been developed by insurance companies in order to make annuity products more attractive. These include death and living benefit options, extra credit options, account guarantees, spousal continuation benefits, reduced contingent deferred sales charges (or surrender charges), and various combinations thereof. Each feature or benefit added to a contract will typically be accompanied by an additional expense either directly (billed to client) or indirectly (inside product).

Deferred annuities are usually divided into two different kinds:

There are several types of performance guarantees, and one may often choose them à la carte, with higher risk charges for guarantees that are riskier for the insurance companies.  The first type is a guaranteed minimum death benefit (GMDB), which can be received only if the owner of the annuity contract, or the covered annuitant, dies.

GMDBs come in various flavors, in order of increasing risk to the insurance company:

Insurance companies provide even greater insurance coverage on guaranteed living benefits, which tend to be elective. Unlike death benefits, which the contractholder generally cannot time, living benefits pose significant risk for insurance companies as contractholders will likely exercise these benefits when they are worth the most. Annuities with guaranteed living benefits (GLBs) tend to have high fees commensurate with the additional risks underwritten by the issuing insurer.

Some GLB examples, in no particular order:

Recently, insurance companies developed asset-transfer programs that operate at the contract level or the fund level. In the former, a percentage of client's account value will be transferred to a designated low-risk fund when the contract has poor investment performance. On the fund level, certain investment options have a target volatility built within the fund (usually about 10%) and will re-balance to maintain that target. In both cases, they are stated to help buffer poor investment performance until markets perform better (where they will transition back to normal allocations to catch an upswing). However, there are criticisms of these programs including, but not limited to, often mandating these programs on clients, restricting flexibility of investing, and not catching the upswing of markets fast enough due to the underlying design of such programs.

Be careful in regard to using GLB riders in non-qualified contracts as most of the products in the annuity marketplace today create a 100% taxable income benefit whereas income generated from an immediate annuity in a non-qualified contract would partially be a return of principal and therefore non-taxable.

Some annuities do not have any deferred surrender charges and do not pay the financial professional a commission, although the financial professional may charge a fee for his or her advice. These contracts are called "no-load" variable annuity products and are usually available from a fee-based financial planner or directly from a no-load mutual fund company. Of course various charges are still imposed on these contracts, but they are less than those sold by commissioned brokers. It is important that potential purchasers of annuities, mutual funds, tax-exempt municipal bonds, commodities futures, 
Variable annuities are controversial because many believe the extra fees (i.e., the fees above and beyond those charged for similar retail mutual funds that offer no principal protection or guarantees of any kind) may reduce the rate of return compared to what the investor could make by investing directly in similar investments outside of the variable annuity. A big selling point for variable annuities is the guarantees many have, such as the guarantee that the customer will not lose his or her principal. Critics say that these guarantees are not necessary because over the long term the market has always been positive, while others say that with the uncertainty of the financial markets many investors simply will not invest without guarantees.
In the U.S. 
Since the 
An investor should consider the financial strength of the insurance company that writes annuity contracts. Major insolvencies have occurred at least 62 times since the conspicuous collapse of the 
Insurance company defaults are governed by state law. The laws are, however, broadly similar in most states. Annuity contracts are protected against insurance company insolvency up to a specific dollar limit, often $100,000, but as high as $500,000 in New York 
The state guaranty association is not a government agency, but states usually require insurance companies to belong to it as a condition of being licensed to do business. The guaranty associations of the fifty states are members of a national umbrella association, the 
A difference between guaranty association protection and the protection of bank accounts by the FDIC, credit union accounts by the NCUA, and brokerage accounts by the SIPC, is that it is difficult for consumers to learn about this protection. Usually, state law prohibits insurance agents and companies from using the guaranty association in any advertising and agents are prohibited by statute from using this Web site or the existence of the guaranty association as an inducement to purchase insurance(e.g., 
Deferred annuities, including fixed, fixed indexed and variable, typically pay the advisor or salesperson 1 percent to 10 percent of the amount invested as a commission, with possible trail options of 25 basis points to 1 percent.  Sometimes the advisor can select his payout option, which might be either 7 or 10 percent up front, or 5 percent up front with a 25 basis point trail, or 1 percent to 3 percent up front with a 1 percent trail.  Trail commissions are most common in variable annuities while fixed annuities and fixed indexed annuities typically pay an up front commission.

Some firms allow an investor to pick an annuity share class, which determines the salesperson's commission schedule.  The main variables are the up-front commission and the 
Fixed and Indexed Annuity commissions are paid to the agent by the insurance companies the agent represents. Commissions are not paid by the client (annuitant).

"No-load" variable annuities are available on a direct-to-consumer basis from several no-load 



(Adds Aramco's no comment)
By Clara Denina , Davide Barbuscia and Saeed Azhar
LONDON/DUBAI, July 18 (Reuters) - Boutique investment bank Evercore Partners has lost the chance to retain a prime position as an independent advisor for Saudi Aramco's potential $100 billion share sale, as the oil giant revives its postponed listing, three sources said.
The Saudi energy minister Khalid al-Falih, who also chairs Aramco, said earlier in July the long-awaited listing could happen in 2020-2021.
Evercore, founded and chaired by U.S. banker and former politician Roger Altman, had secured an equity advisory role with the oil giant in 2017 for what is expected to be the world's largest ever initial public offering (IPO).
But the relationship between Evercore and Aramco deteriorated, making it difficult for the U.S. advisor to get a new top role, the sources said.
One of the sources also said that the appeal of Aramco's IPO to Evercore had diminished, due to the relatively low level of fees involved.
An Evercore spokesman declined to comment.
Work on the IPO was interrupted in 2018 when Aramco shifted its attention to the acquisition of a 70% stake in local petrochemicals maker Saudi Basic Industries Corp.
Banks were dismissed, meaning that when the process re-starts they will have to make fresh pitches to the company, two other sources said.
Aramco is expected to formally approach banks for bookrunner roles over the next few weeks, they added.
Alongside Evercore, Aramco chose Moelis & Co and U.S. dealmaker Michael Klein as independent advisors, while JPMorgan , Morgan Stanley and HSBC Holdings Plc were among those to secure leading roles in the IPO.
HSBC, which was chosen as a global coordinator, could now end up with a more marginal role, two of the sources said.
HSBC and Saudi Aramco declined to comment.
NO CHOICE
Although Saudi Aramco is known for having paid relatively low banking fees in the past, banks competed fiercely for an IPO mandate in late 2016 because it was viewed as a gateway to other deals expected to emerge from Saudi Arabia's privatisation plan.
"International banks feel that they have no choice...they will again send senior teams to Saudi Arabia to pitch, work and hopefully execute the deal," one of the sources said.
Evercore has pushed to win advisory roles in the Middle East, opening an office in Dubai in 2017 and advising Saudi Arabia's Sovereign Wealth Fund, the Public Investment Fund (PIF), on acquiring an equity interest in AccorInvest, a subsidiary of AccorHotels for 4.4 billion euros ($4.94 billion) in 2018.
It also advised the PIF on its $1 billion investment in electric car maker Lucid Motors, according to sources.
Aramco's IPO is the centrepiece of a Saudi Arabian government plan to transform the economy by attracting foreign investment and diversifying away from oil.
Its gestation has however been complicated by scepticism about Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman's public declaration in 2016 that the sale would value the company at $2 trillion. There are also concerns about the legal risks and tough disclosure requirements associated with a foreign listing. ($1 = 0.8904 euros) (Additional reporting by Hadeel El Sayegh in Dubai; Editing by Kirsten Donovan and Elaine Hardcastle)


By Elizabeth Dilts and Matt Scuffham
(Reuters) - Morgan Stanley <MS.N> reported a drop in quarterly profit Thursday, hit by lower market activity amid global trade tensions and expectations for U.S. interest rate cuts.
It was the last big U.S. bank to report earnings in a quarter that exposed weaknesses in Wall Street's investment bank and trading businesses. But Morgan Stanley executives downplayed the toll rate cuts could have on profitability and highlighted growth in the bank's wealth management unit.
The wealth business, which contributes 44% of Morgan Stanley's revenue, rose 1.9% to $4.40 billion from a year earlier. The unit benefited both from higher stock prices and more lending to customers. That more than offset the effects of lower interest rates.
The bank reported pre-tax profit margin of 28.2% for the business, just above the high end of its 26% to 28% target. Chief Executive Officer James Gorman placed a huge bet on wealth manager nearly a decade ago as a source of stable revenue.
Lower interest rates can squeeze a bank's net interest income, or the difference between what it pays for deposits and earns from loans. But Morgan Stanley officials said they expected net interest income for the third quarter to remain in line with 2018 at roughly $1.1 billion.
"What drives the numbers is not just net interest income," said Gorman on a call with analysts. "We have some other businesses over here and some of these businesses are chugging along quite nicely."
Still, Morgan Stanley's sales and trading revenue fell 12% in the second quarter, with both bond and equity trading seeing a dip. By comparison, main rival Goldman Sachs Group Inc <GS.N> on Tuesday reported a drop in revenue from bond trading but higher equities trading.
Concerns about up to three rate cuts this year weighed on bank earnings throughout the week and caused rival JPMorgan Chase & Co <JPM.N> to lower its projected net interest margin for the year.
Morgan Stanley does not report this metric, but Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Pruzan said interest rate cuts would crimp margins in the wealth business. What it would do to the rest of the bank's business, he said, is less clear.
"What it does to our fixed income business and our equity business is really a function of how people interpret the cut," Pruzan said. "If it improves people's view of the world that we're going to extend the economic expansion and people want to press that view in the equity markets, it could ... help."
Equity sales and trading net revenues fell 14% in the second quarter from a year earlier.
Revenue from investment banking, which includes advising on deals and helping corporations raise money, fell 13%, helping push the bank's total revenue down to $10.2 billion.
The bank said earnings attributable to Morgan Stanley fell to $2.20 billion, or $1.23 per share, in the second quarter ended June 30, from $2.44 billion, or $1.30 per share, a year ago.
Non-interest expenses fell 2% to $7.34 billion, helped by lower compensation costs.
The bank beat analysts profit expectations of $1.14 per share. Its stock was up 0.4 percent at $43.95.
(Reporting by Elizabeth Dilts and Matt Scuffham in New York; additional reporting Noor Zainab Hussain in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty, Neal Templin, and Nick Zieminski)

If the U.S. economy is headed for a slowdown, the big banks aren’t seeing it in consumer trends. In earnings reports this week, the four biggest U.S. banks painted a bright picture of consumer credit, which helped them mask revenue concerns in their trading divisions.
“The U.S. consumer remains healthy, overall credit is in great shape, and the earning power of the company is evident,” JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon said July 16.
JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Wells Fargo, and Citigroup all beat earnings estimates on the top and bottom lines for the second quarter, thanks to a strong consumer.
Those earnings appear to reinforce the Federal Reserve’s observations on consumer strength.
Fed Chairman Jerome Powell 
“While growth in consumer spending was weak in the first quarter, incoming data shows it bounced back, and is now running at a solid pace,” Powell said.
But interest rate-sensitive banks have faced compressed margins, raising questions about whether the big banks will face a further crunch on levels of profitability in future quarters.
All four big banks reported quarter-over-quarter declines in net interest margin, a key measure of the difference between interest collected on loans and interest paid on deposits. With the Fed’s four rate hikes in 2018, banks are still feeling pressure to pay their depositors more to stop them from moving their funds to rival banks.
In theory, a rate cut could alleviate upward pressure on deposit costs, but Wells Fargo CFO John Shrewsberry told analysts not to get too giddy.
“Where we have continued to outperform on the big massive consumer deposits, et cetera, deposits are still really, really inexpensive,” Shrewsberry said July 16. “And there isn't much leverage on the way down, so they will take a couple of quarters...to sort of fully stabilize.”
JPMorgan Chase (
Competitors also saw robust consumer activity. Citigroup (
Bank of America, meanwhile, was able to grow loans by 6% year-over-year thanks to a strong pipeline of funding from customer deposits. On the bottom line, consumer banking net income rose 13% year-over-year.
“These are massive growth engines that have exceed the size of many institutions,” Bank of America (
Wells Fargo (
A strong consumer helped banks with large trading desks, since financial headwinds made it tough for investment banks to make money in the last quarter.
Total markets revenue was down 6% at JPMorgan Chase’s corporate and investment bank. Citigroup saw a 9% decline in its equity markets business and a 4% decline in its fixed income revenues. Bank of America’s sales and trading revenue fell 10%, with an 8% decline in fixed income and a 13% drop in equities.
Bank of America CFO Paul Donofrio told reporters June 17 that yields coming down globally hurt fixed income, pointing out that the U.S. June bond auction saw 
“What do you need to see? You probably just need to see a little bit more confidence about global growth,” Donofrio said. “It would help to clear some of the concerns people have about trade.”
Goldman Sachs (
The other large investment bank, Morgan Stanley (
Brian Cheung is a reporter covering the banking industry and the intersection of finance and policy for Yahoo Finance. You can follow him on Twitter 
Wells Fargo expenses to be on the 'high end' as it continues turnaround effort
Wells Fargo's top and bottom lines beat estimates
Citi earnings cast spotlight on consumer lending amid economic headwinds
Powell: 'Just so important' to keep economic expansion going
Maxine Waters pushes against Trump's Fed criticism to 'get rid of any uncertainties'
Congress may have accidentally freed nearly all banks from the Volcker Rule
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance
Follow Yahoo Finance on

Twitter founder Jack Dorsey's account has been take over by hackers, raising concerns about the security of the social network.
Enjoy your morning cuppa without worry
Residents in the Indian state of Assam have spent Saturday checking to see if they have been included on the controversial National Register of Citizens.
Roland Head crunches the numbers and explains why starting early could cut what you need to save monthly by more than 50%.
FTSE 100 (INDEXFTSE:UKX) listed REITs could offer a means of generating a growing passive income in my view.
This FTSE 100 (INDEXFTSE:UKX) company has the future wrapped up, thinks Harvey Jones.
An Italian court ruled in favour of a petition filed by French media giant Vivendi  to vote against Mediaset  reorganisation plan at the Italian group's upcoming shareholders' meeting, two sources said on Saturday.  Vivendi owns a total stake of 29% in Mediaset, but two-thirds of that are held
Stock market indices such as the FTSE 100 (INDEXFTSE:UKX) are one of the few sensible ways to build long-term wealth, says Harvey Jones.
An electric future is slowly creeping in. If Government deadlines are to be believed, in the not-too-distant future we’ll only be able to buy cars powered by electricity, yet the race to be the king of the EV hill is very much upon us already.
Diesel has been vilified of late. It’s seen as dirty, polluting, and the kind of stuff you’d only use if your hobbies include witchcraft and drowning puppies. Way back when, though diesel cars and fuel was more expensive, diesels were cheaper to tax and higher MPG figures made them appealing to run,
New Austrian National Bank (OeNB) Governor Robert Holzmann set out a hawkish stance before his first meeting as a European Central Bank policymaker, saying stepped-up monetary stimulus for the euro zone posed more risks than benefits.  Holzmann, 70, is a pensions specialist who has worked at the World
Swedish Finance Minister Magdalena Andersson said on Saturday the centre-left coalition government would introduce a bank tax to help fund greater defence spending from 2022.  The Social Democrats and Greens said on Friday they had agreed with the Centre and Liberal Parties, which back them in parliament
If you like dividend stocks at bargain prices, then you're going to love today's FTSE 100 (INDEXFTSE:UKX), says Harvey Jones.
The balance of euro zone growth risks is clearly tilted to the downside, European Central Bank policymaker Pablo Hernandez de Cos said on Saturday, citing a disorderly Brexit as a key risk and acknowledging the ECB's shortcomings in meeting its inflation goals.  De Cos said in a speech in La Granda
The State Pension isn't enough to cover your retirement spending, but Harvey Jones says these two FTSE 100 (INDEXFTSE:UKX) stocks can help plug the gap.
These two FTSE 250 (INDEXFTSE:MCX) companies have strategies that could realise considerable value for investors, argues G A Chester.
Fears over Ebola epidemic in Democratic Republic of Congo
PM promises £14bn extra for schools taking funding back to levels of 2010 under the coalition government.
Harvey Jones says you really can make a million from the FTSE 100 (INDEXFTSE:UKX) in an ISA, provided you pull out all the stops.
Fears over Ebola epidemic in Democratic Republic of Congo
Willing to take big risks for big rewards? Paul Summers takes a closer look at junior miner Greatland Gold (LON:GGP) and another miner that could make investors rich.
Harvey Jones picks out two FTSE 100 (INDEXFTSE:UKX) dividend income heroes that could help you overcome State Pension worries.
Looking to increase your net worth to seven figures? Here's what you should (and shouldn't) do.
Protesters and police have clashed in Indian-controlled Kashmir. People there are angry India's revoked the Muslim-majority region's special status.
These FTSE 100 (LON:INDEXFTSE: UKX) stocks have all the hallmarks of Buffett-like investments, says Rupert Hargreaves.
Over the long term, the FTSE 100 (LON:INDEXFTSE:UKX) has produced much better returns for investors than property, argues this Fool.

Update your browser





                                16 August 2019
                            
Long-term investing is about compounding growth steadily over the years, creating a snowball effect as interest builds on interest. As a result, for fund managers focused on the long term, the quality and integrity of a business model and the team employing it are paramount. This means avoiding companies with subpar checks and balances on their accounts, or those risking the reliability of quality growth for vanity projects or short-term profits.
But it’s also about being a part of the positive development of environmental social and governance standards (ESG) across the corporate world. In this sense, sustainability has nothing to do with ethics and everything to do with identifying trustworthy, dependable management with a good track record of delivering business progress and consistent growth.
If a business can make money while leaving the earth in a better condition than they found it or at least put back what they took out, then everyone’s a winner.
Here are three of the most popular sustainability-focused funds on 
Rathbone Ethical Bond
For Bryn Jones, manager of the 
But, as is often levelled at this part of the market, do investors have to give up some growth to invest sustainably? Jones explains: “We do a lot of the things you’d expect from a mainstream manager in looking at the fundamentals of a business, so that’s not in any way sacrificed. In fact it’s augmented by additional levels of due diligence.”
Jones’s main focus is identifying responsible governance which sticks to principles investors can understand while being less likely to attract regulatory intervention and, for investors, a knock-on effect on the company’s value.
A common misconception within the space is that this is where the ethical label ends, but rather than just looking to leave out companies that don’t hit the mark, there is also considerable scope to look for companies that seek to do good. Jones explains his approach: "We have a negative screening process which avoids companies with certain negative practices. These can range from environmental damage, mineral extraction, animal testing and pornography to gambling, tobacco and alcohol production. Then our positive screen looks for evidence of social or environmental change, gender equality in employment and work with charities, among other criteria. So, we're not only looking at negative things, we’re also looking for something that's nice and solid that gives a business a strong ethical bias.”
Fidelity Sustainable Water & Waste
Manager Bertrand Lecourt has been running money in the sustainable space for nearly 20 years and, as head of the 
The manager looks to invest in companies across the water and waste value chains, actively engaging with firms to maintain strong ESG credentials. The fund holds a blend of large established names and younger firms developing new technologies and efficiencies.
Using a bottom-up approach, Lecourt examines opportunities in the treatment, storage and distribution of water, as well as the transport, management and output (often through energy or fertilizer production) of waste. The manager believes the thematic fund is able to capitalise on one of the most historic megatrends that will only continue to become more important.
With 70% of the world’s population expected to live in cities by 2050, and most western sanitation infrastructure in need of renewal, Lecourt sees opportunity in engaging and facilitating technological change in the space, with an eye on profit for investors.
One of the manager’s aims is to maintain a better ESG profile than the fund’s peers – an aspect he keeps at the forefront of all portfolio inclusions.
Examples of companies in the fund include American Water Works, one of the largest listed water utility companies by revenue in the US, and Waste Management Inc, the country’s biggest solid waste management company.
Thank you. We've emailed you to confirm your subscription.
Kames Ethical Equity
“We have seen a big increase in the number of socio-responsible funds over the last 10 years but one size doesn’t fit all in the ethical space,” says Audrey Ryan manager of the 
With initial ethics-based analysis conducted by independent research service Eiris, Kames’s analysts add a layer of in-house scrutiny before prospective investments are passed to Ryan. Companies are excluded from consideration should they fail to meet the 12 social and environmental criteria inherent to the fund.
“Our screening process analyses companies based on their activities or the products they offer. We are one of the toughest ethical screeners and, if we are in doubt as to whether a business meets our criteria or not, we will not invest.” says Ryan.
These proprietary principles discard investment related to alcohol, animal welfare, banks with exposure to corporate or third-world debt, the environment, gambling, genetic engineering, arms, nuclear power, oppressive regimes, political donations, pornography and tobacco.
Ryan then gets on with investing, selecting companies secure in the knowledge that the filtered companies meet the fund’s ethical requirements.
The transparency of the fund’s focus is key for the manager, as she explains: “The fund is designed for investors who want to align their ethical views with their investments. The principles we have are clear and we communicate these with our investor base regularly so we stay on the same page.”
More on 
More on 
More on 
Important information 
 
UK car industry experiences worst decline since the financial crisis
Jonathan Wright
Fidelity Personal Investing
What are the yields on bonds and shares telling us?
Tom Stevenson
Investment Director
High street stores need to think differently
Daniel Lane
Fidelity Personal Investing
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                23 August 2019
                            
With their ability to plan for the super long term, a lot of trusts will focus purely on selecting the right equities for the portfolio. However, there are trusts out there mixing a range of assets with a view to navigating the choppiest of markets and reducing volatility over the long haul.
Here are three of the most popular mixed asset investment trusts on fidelity.co.uk this month:
RIT Capital Partners
Few trusts can draw upon a history of capital preservation comparable to that behind RIT Capital Partners.
Listed in 1988 by Lord Rothschild who remains chair, the trust employs a multi-asset approach to investing for the long-term, paying close attention to the founder’s original aims. Chief operating officer Jonathan Kestenbaum explains: “Since the trust began we have been alert to the fact that capital growth is only one element to our objectives, the other being a vigilant approach to capital preservation, which is a hallmark of the Rothschild history.”
With no constraints around asset allocation in the trust, management is free to invest where it sees the best opportunities. Typically, the trust will hold a blend of quoted and unquoted equities, internal and external funds, bonds, currencies and cash to provide investors with a truly diversified portfolio.
Striving for equity-type returns with less volatility, Kestenbaum says: “With no specific restrictions it makes it easier to manage risk by spreading assets as we see fit. We invest in three categories, namely public shares, private equity and funds. This type of strategy ensures that at any one time at least one of these cylinders is firing.”
While aiming to invest in a widely diversified international portfolio, management is conscious of over-diversification and seeks to control this by identifying quality opportunities and backing their ideas. Kestenbaum says: “We like to hold meaningfully-sized positions because if you’re not careful you’re left with a long tail of tiny positions. Our aim is to invest in such size as to make the positions meaningful for the portfolio.”
Murray International
“Short-termism is the scourge of the investment industry,” says Bruce Stout, manager of the Murray International Trust. In the mature stage of an equity bull market, the manager says that companies are missing the big picture by trying to grow constantly over the short term.
The growing pressure to hit rising quarterly targets is stopping companies investing in themselves for the future, says the manager. He explains: “After a period of strong growth you need to settle down and make sure everything is working well before you begin to grow again.”
In an environment of intense focus on growth the manager is keen to emphasise the importance of not overpaying for the prospect. Stout’s aim is to find companies that will prosper over the long term while staying mindful of paying the right price. He says: “We always have to be conscious that we’re not paying too much for a company. But of course being Scottish, that’s a great advantage.”
Rather than grouping countries and companies together, diversification is key for the manager’s global outlook. He points to the dangers of focusing on one area of the market and underlines the need for the type of long-term view employed in the Murray International Trust.
He explains: “The market likes concentration as we’ve seen with the obsession with the US and massive interest in the likes of the biotech sector. But we’ve seen concentration problems like the tech boom – these things pass and the novelties wear off. We aim to hold our companies for at least ten years and take each business on its own merits – we understand what’s happening in the countries but fundamentally we look at the companies.”
The trust currently has around 80% of the portfolio in equities, with 16% in fixed income, as the manager looks to deliver benchmark-beating returns with lower volatility than its peers.
Thank you. We've emailed you to confirm your subscription.
Personal Assets Trust
The most balanced of the three, the Personal Assets Trust is run specifically for private investors with a policy of protecting capital first. Growth plays second fiddle here as the fund takes a long-term view, looking to attract cautious investors concerned primarily with preservation rather than achieving high returns.
As such, the trust has a level balance between equities and bonds, currently holding 46% of the portfolio in company shares and 44% in fixed income. Manager Sebastian Lyon looks for high quality companies with pricing power and defensive characteristics in sectors like healthcare and consumer goods, avoiding cyclical stocks and firms with intense capital needs. Examples here include portfolio holdings Microsoft, Nestlé and Coca-Cola. In terms of fixed income, Lyon reduces the risk of the fund by holding a range of government bonds, most notably from the US and UK.
Cash takes up around 10% of the fund, serving as a diversifier and a source of readily available funds, should the opportunity arise to capitalise upon a new investment idea without cannibalising existing holdings.
More on 
More on 
More on 
Important information
 
UK car industry experiences worst decline since the financial crisis
Jonathan Wright
Fidelity Personal Investing
What are the yields on bonds and shares telling us?
Tom Stevenson
Investment Director
High street stores need to think differently
Daniel Lane
Fidelity Personal Investing
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                7 December 2018
                            
I remember watching a documentary at school on Bill Gates - one scene in particular has always stayed with me. In it, Gates takes the camera on a tour of his house, explaining how the rooms adjust the temperature to his preference, and how he chats with his fridge about the week’s shopping list. Even the pictures on the wall change depending on who is in the room.
It was the first time I had seen a true example of the Internet of Things (IoT) in action and I couldn’t believe what I was seeing but, of course, if anyone was going to own a home like this, it was going to be the head of Microsoft.
I thought back to that scene this week, as my thermostat app kicked in when I entered the kitchen, the lights flicked on and I asked Alexa to choose some music for me. Not quite the same but, incredibly, not far off.
The Internet of Things (IoT) has evolved from a tradeshow catchphrase to a very real part of everyday life, and the growth has shown no signs of stopping. Whether it’s the vast expansion in smartphone capabilities or the steady progress in the connectivity of home appliances, we’re closer to full digital integration than we’ve ever been.
The companies supporting the evolution in the space range from hardware technicians to e-commerce, telecoms and software developers across the tech sector. Fund managers with an eye on the changes these companies are bringing about are paying close attention to where the opportunities for investment are right across the supply chain. Here are three funds from the 

Fidelity Emerging Markets
One of the largest component suppliers to the biggest smartphone names out there, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (TSMC) is no stranger to Asian funds or those in the tech sector. Its industrial output directly benefits the fundamental hardware found in smartphones, tablets, smartwatches and a range of internet-connected objects, attracting the attention of Fidelity manager Nick Price.
Price complements this hardware element of the portfolio with a firm whose tech side focuses more on software and e-commerce apps, Alibaba.
The fund names the Chinese giant as one of its top holdings, with the manager buoyed by its ability to inject itself into everyday life, through the likes of its mobile payment division Alipay being used from luxury boutiques to street food vendors.
The growth of Alibaba over the past five years is impressive but perhaps not so surprising when we consider the size and influence of the company in the e-commerce space. With no natural predator in China, Jack Ma’s online marketplace easily dominates the field but it’s hard to put into perspective the scale of the company’s operations.
The number of annual active consumers on the company’s retail platform reached 552 million in March, an increase of 98 million on the previous year. And subsidiary marketplace Taobao saw 617 million monthly users too, making it the world’s biggest e-commerce website.
Samsung is another of Price’s top names. As a leading name in smart devices, including vacuum cleaners, washing machines and fridges, the firm goes far beyond its headline phone business. Samsung Connect Home even serves as a wi-fi router where all of your smart home devices can gather and communicate, making device management and integration even easier.
The manager is supported by Fidelity’s global emerging markets analysts who scour their respective regions for the best opportunities to include in one of three regional funds. Price then selects the best ideas for his global portfolio from these regional pools.
This two-step process means Price only takes the very best ideas from each region. Before a stock is even considered for his portfolio, it has already been vetted by a regional fund manager and the local analyst team.
Fidelity Asian Special Situations
Like Price, manager Suranjan Mukherjee counts TSMC, Alibaba and Samsung as three of the top names in the Fidelity Asian Special Situations fund. One notable addition in the top ten holdings is tech behemoth Tencent, whose businesses include instant messaging app WeChat and China’s leading online payment platform Tenpay. Although, the company has significant interests in entertainment, imaging software, and artificial intelligence.
Arguably the biggest name in Chinese tech, Tencent is already at the heart of everyday life for hundreds of millions of people. As Dale Nicholls, manager of the 
Mukherjee also holds state-owned telecoms company China mobile in the fund. The firm is the largest mobile telecommunications corporation by market capitalisation and also the world's largest mobile phone operator by total number of subscribers, with over 902 million subscribers as of June 2018.
Majedie UK Equity
“We are pragmatic investors,” says co-manager Chris Field, “We don’t have any style bias. The kind of companies we’re looking for are those that other investors are misunderstanding. We invest where we can see a valuation gap that can narrow through a catalyst we can identify.”
One example fitting the bill for Field and co-managers Richard Staveley, James de Uphaugh and Matthew Smith, is FTSE 100 firm Vodafone. With phones and access to high speed mobile internet at the forefront of full interconnectivity, the mobile giant looks set to benefit.
With another top ten holding in French-listed Orange, a current overweight position for the fund is in the telecoms sector, which the managers believe has been unfairly treated by investors. A regulation crackdown that removed many of the easy ways for telecoms companies to make money has put many off the sector, but Field and co believe this is now fully priced in. What’s more, the fundamentals for telecoms appear to be improving, as governments recognise the important role high speed broadband plays in modern economies.
The Majedie fund invests in the UK but is international in many ways. Firstly, because the blue-chip names it often buys derive much of their profit from overseas but also because the fund holds some names from non-UK markets. The fund currently holds 10% outside of the UK, but has the mandate to raise this to 20% if the managers wish to.
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. Investors should note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon. Overseas investments will be affected by movements in currency exchange rates. Investments in emerging markets can be more volatile than other more developed markets. Reference to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities and is included for the purposes of illustration only. Select 50 is not a personal recommendation to buy or sell a fund. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                15 March 2019
                            
The 
Launched in 1988, it has recently been joined by an army of newer arrivals, all looking to respond to the increasing demand for ethical and socially responsible investing. This influx has not made it any easier for investors trying to understand how funds invest, according to Ketan Patel, manager of the EdenTree fund.
“It’s a very confusing space in terms of language”, he says. “Funds describe themselves as either Ethical, SRI (socially responsible investing), ESG (environmental, social and governance), Sustainable or Impact funds. Those are actually five different things that investors have to understand”.
Patel describes his fund as “Responsible and Sustainable”. He added: “We think you need those two because an arms company may be sustainable, but is it responsible? No.”
The fund screens UK equities that mostly fall into the small and mid-cap space. There are both positive and negative screens, Patel explains. Negative screening simply rules certain companies or sectors out from the very start. Positive screens, meanwhile, go looking for companies making a positive impact in the eyes of the fund manager.
Patel says that anyone thinking of using a fund like his needs to understand what’s going on underneath to ensure that their values are matched by those of the fund and the manager. Many investors can be surprised, for example, when they find their ‘ethical’ fund has no problem with fossil fuels.
There are currently steps being taken to better classify ethical funds for UK investors, but Patel is sceptical that any measures - for a separate ESG fund sector, for example - can replace the need for investors to understand funds for themselves.
He adds that for funds like his to do their job properly, then managers like him need to exercise their right to vote on company actions on behalf of investors and with the aim of improving corporate behaviour - and that tends to mean funds have to be run actively.
“Voting is really important for us and we publish how we’ve voted every quarter. There is increasingly a focus on high pay and how this can make companies too short term. Passive funds and Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) won’t vote so can’t improve that. I understand the drive for lower fees, but I don’t think you can do this passively.”
Patel insists that his approach is not simply about issues of conscience - it will lead to a higher return as well.
“Years ago it was seen as binary - you have to give up profits for value”, he says. “Wrong. Investing responsibly and sustainably gives you alpha - or a higher risk-rated return. But it also gives you risk management because it removes companies that we think won’t be around in five or 10 years‘ time.”
Thank you. We've emailed you to confirm your subscription.
Patel says his team is constantly updating its thinking to take account of new trends. Right now, the focus on the potential detriment hidden in supply chains is a concern. This could include ‘fast fashion’ chains reliant on cheap labour in emerging markets, but also the most expensive smartphones which need rare minerals in their manufacture.
“We’ve been a thought leader for a long time and we always need to be thinking about these issues. They can change all the time.”
More on 
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                5 February 2019
                            
Just as many investors have been getting worried about prospects for the UK, Colin Morton, manager of the 
A sell-off of UK shares in the past year has made many areas of the market very attractive to income investors because it has pushed the dividend yield - the percentage of the price of the shares that is then paid out as a dividend - higher.
“Areas that weren’t yielding much a year ago are suddenly now very interesting to us”, he said in a recent interview with Fidelity Personal Investing.
He cites housebuilders as an example of a sector that has not traditionally been a home for equity income investors, but which now offers attention-grabbing levels of potential income.
And this isn’t the only way in which Morton has been able to gain from the uncertainty facing the UK. A weaker pound in the period since the EU referendum has inflated the pounds and pence earnings of large UK companies which earn in overseas currencies.
Meanwhile, an elevated oil price has shored up the dividends of the two major oil companies listed in the UK - 
The risk of a very damaging exit from the EU and a hit to the UK economy was real, Morton said, but he added that most dividends would survive in all but the worst scenarios.
He said: “As an income investor, my glass it half-full right now. There are lots of good companies offering really good yields, and the outlook is good. Of course there can be casualties and dividends can be cut, but if you look at the biggest yields now in areas like the housebuilders, life insurers and oil, they could actually be cut in half and still offer a decent yield.”
Morton manages the Franklin fund alongside colleagues Ben Russon and Mark Hall. The focus, he says, is on companies where the dividend is not just high compared to the market, but sustainable and likely to grow.
Thank you. We've emailed you to confirm your subscription.
“We all know that more than half your return in the long term comes from dividends being reinvested, but the growth in the dividend is also crucial to that long-term return“, he said.
The fund yields above 5% currently, which is around 10% higher than the market overall and is not guaranteed. Understanding the underlying operations of a business is crucial in assessing its ability to pay an income, Morton says, and much of the team’s efforts are focused on that task.
More on 
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. Select 50 is not a personal recommendation to buy or sell a fund. Reference to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities and is included for the purposes of illustration only. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
We all know our investments affect the world around us. And we are becoming more interested than ever in the environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards of the companies we invest in.
Fund managers in the sustainable, ethical and socially responsible investing (SRI) space put these concerns at the heart of their investment processes. They look to generate returns and benefit society at the same time.
Find out more here on the merits of ESG investing and browse the funds looking to make a positive impact on society and the environment as well as your portfolio. 
The value of investments can go down as well as up so you may get back less than you invest. This is not a personal recommendation to buy funds. Equally, if a fund you own is not on the list, we’re not recommending you sell it. You must ensure that any fund you choose to invest in is suitable for your own personal circumstances.
Our investment director Tom Stevenson sheds some light on what ESG investing is all about and the different ways investors can tap into the theme.​​​
Dan
Tom, thanks for coming in. So ESG, another three letter acronym for investors to get used to, first of all what does it stand for?
Tom
The E is about the environment, so this is looking for companies and investigating the impact that they have on the environment around them. So it might be looking at issues around pollution, for example or water, waste management, climate change, all of those kinds of issues.
The S is about society or social aspects, so this might be looking at employment practices of companies, making sure they’re not involved in modern day slavery for example, just looking at how they treat their employees.
The G is about the governance, so this is about how a company fits in with the regulations surrounding its industry for example but also issues around senior manager pay for example, that’s a big issue in governance at the moment. So that’s ESG.
Dan
Tom
I think the second reason is the sort of warm and fuzzy thing which we associate with maybe ethical investing. I think increasingly people are concerned about putting their money to good use, they don’t want to be backing companies that they feel are doing the wrong thing. They want companies to be aligned to their values.
Dan
Tom
At the other end of the spectrum I think you’ve got investors looking for companies that are making a positive impact on society and the environment. This is sometimes called impact investing. And then in the middle I think this is actually the more interesting area. This is where investors are
looking to engage with companies to help them become more sustainable and to guide them and to learn with them about how they can become better long-term companies.
Dan
Tom
Dan
Tom
Dan
Tom
Hitting ESG targets with a firm focus on profit
Daniel Lane
Fidelity Personal Investing
Welcome to the future of investing
Graham Smith
Market Commentator
Environmental considerations are no longer a ‘nice to have’
Tom Stevenson
Investment Director
Shedding light on responsible investing
Don’t let ESG perfection be the enemy of good
Do ethical funds have an image problem?
Here are the top 10 most bought and sold ESG funds by our customers on the Fidelity website in the month of July 2019.
The value of investments can go down as well as up so you may get back less than you invest. This information is not a personal recommendation in respect of a particular investment. If you need additional help, please speak to a financial adviser. You should regularly reassess the suitability of your investments to ensure they continue to meet your attitude to risk and investment goals.








































Please note that the Investment Manager’s focus on securities of companies which maintain strong environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) credentials may result in a return that at times compares unfavourably to similar products without such focus.  No representation nor warranty is made with respect to the fairness, accuracy or completeness of such credentials.  The status of a security’s ESG credentials can change over time.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                20 November 2018
                            
If you’ve recently returned from a life high in the hills, you’d be forgiven for not being familiar with the world’s biggest tech names. For everyone else, it’s highly likely that you’ve developed at least a passing understanding of the rise and rise of the sector giants.
For many, the BATs (Baidu, Alibaba and Tencent) and FAANGs (Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Netflix and Google-owner Alphabet) symbolise the changing of the guard from the 20th Century’s industrial economy to one where we simply can’t keep up with the scale and direction of digital disruption.
However, 2018 has shown that it’s not all one way traffic, with some of the biggest risers becoming some of the biggest fallers on revelations of data mismanagement, slowing growth in main business propositions and heady valuations.
This is when it pays to be diversified between sectors and geographies but, more specifically when it comes to tech, across the spectrum of innovation and digitalisation. All tech firms were not born equal so holding a blend of the main players and more unique and often overlooked opportunities has never been so important.
A good way to make sure your holdings are well-diversified is by tapping into the investment capabilities of active funds with significant tilts towards the sector in all its forms. The 

Rathbone Global Opportunities
A brief look at the top holdings in James Thomson’s fund gives a clear indication of the manager’s belief in the future of tech. Despite the recent share price pullbacks, the manager is happy to keep 25% of the fund exposed to the sector, making clear selectivity and diversification are key.
Thomson explains: “Technology is a broad church. We have semiconductor companies, chip businesses, software companies, hardware and the internet, for example. The drivers of those businesses are different so you can’t lump them into one area and think that the whole sector will be under pressure.
“You also have to remember that tech is mission critical for some businesses and this perhaps is what has changed over the last decade. Being at the leading edge of new technology and staying relevant for the next wave of customers really is a top priority for every corporate CEO.”
This sustainability in customer proposition that Thomson looks for in the sector is no accident - it is very much a part of his rigorous, considered approach to identifying good quality companies for the fund he has run for almost 15 years.
Other ingredients in the manager’s ‘secret sauce’ include easy to understand businesses, companies growing quickly but sustainably, and prudent management teams with great vision for the future. He seeks out companies who are shaking up their industry but with positive long-term prospects rather than short-term fads.
A good example here is Abiomed, one of the fund’s top names. The company is a pioneer in innovative healthcare technology and counts the world’s first total replacement heart and the world’s smallest heart pump among its achievements.
Fidelity Global Special Situations
On the face of it, the Rathbone fund and Fidelity’s Global Special Situations might look quite similar. Both have a strong US-tilt, both prefer large caps, with small caps making up under 3% of either portfolio, and both have an eye for tech, medical and otherwise. But delve a little deeper and the differences are quite compelling.
Whereas the Rathbone offering has a very strong growth style, Fidelity’s Jeremy Podger prefers a greater balance between value and growth investing meaning the manager is ready to capitalise on any eventual style rotation while positioning the portfolio to make gains in the short term.
Podger also mixes old and new tech, with Microsoft, Apple, Alphabet and medical pioneer HCA Healthcare all occupying top ten spots in the fund’s holdings. This blend allows the manager to tap into developing trends such as cloud computing, while maintaining exposure to the steady growth of less glamorous areas of the sector like corporate software licensing.
For the manager, this year has thrown up some good opportunities to add to the portfolio, but perhaps not where most investors think. Believing that enthusiasm for some of the sector’s big names have somewhat lost touch with reality over the past 18 months, Podger has instead focused on second-tier companies, aiming to identify more attractively-valued future leaders benefitting from the same long term structural growth opportunities.
Baillie Gifford Japanese
“We’re very excited about the scope for robotics,” says Matthew Brett, manager of the Baillie Gifford Japanese Fund.
He explains: “It feels a bit like the internet did 15 years ago, where it’s relatively easy to see that robotics could be more significant than it is today. But we’re still at the early stages, moving away from robots being used to make cars in developed countries into the whole matrix of opportunity in new industries and moving outside of the developed countries.”
While more susceptible to the swings of single-nation economic policy than the Rathbone and Fidelity funds, Brett is confident that his focus on long-term structural changes driven by technology shifts holds more sway than near-term political decisions.
It comes as no surprise then that the fund is particularly heavy in companies ready to drive technological change, rather than support existing production and manufacturing methods. The manager has roughly a quarter of the portfolio allocated to internet-related businesses and another 15% of the portfolio in factory automation and robotics-related businesses. Examples here include Rakuten, one of the largest ecommerce platforms in the world, and Kubota, developers of autonomous farm machinery, including self-driving tractors, rice transplanters and exoskeletons for manual workers.
Rather than broadly allocating to tech-focused companies, the manager believes opportunity lies in identifying already successful companies who are adapting and integrating new tech into their businesses with a view to maintaining or developing their market leadership.
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. Investors should note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon. Reference to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities and is included for the purposes of illustration only. Select 50 is not a personal recommendation to buy or sell a fund. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
A closer look at some of the funds we offer.
Investors should note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon.
The value of investments can go down as well as up so you may get back less than you invest. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.


Mixed asset portfolios set up for the long term


Hitting ESG targets with a firm focus on profit


Getting the balance right


Interesting approaches to the land of the rising sun


Gold mining shares offer another way to diversify


Income from UK dividends maximised


Loving the unloved


Busting the small cap myths


Scottish Mortgage on the importance of unquoted investments


When it comes to long-term investing, few funds can match the credentials of the F&C Investment Trust.


ESG trailblazer well-placed as the rest catch up


Looking for steady growth around the world


Ketan Patel knows his fund was a pioneer


Steadily rising income that’s made in Britain


Long-term investing with long-term assets


Why the glass is half-full for UK dividends


Unloved, misunderstood or forgotten stocks


Shedding light on responsible investing


How to invest in uncertain times


Opportunity in connectivity


The future in focus.


Discerning approaches to technology


Simple but not easy


The Aussie rules to investing


Investors turn to sustainability


Fitzgerald on Brexit



    Show 
The objective of this section is to present users with objective news, information, data and guidance on personal finance topics drawn from a diverse collection of sources including affiliated and non-affiliated financial services publications. Content is not intended to provide tax, legal, insurance or investment advice and should not be construed as an offer to sell, a solicitation of an offer to buy, or a recommendation for any security or investment by any Fidelity entity or any third-party.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
Start saving for a child’s future by investing in a Stocks and Shares Junior ISA on their behalf.
Important information
Whether you’re saving for your child's education or to help them get a foot on the property ladder, we’ll help you to open a Junior ISA, with as little or as much guidance as you need.
To open a Junior ISA all you need to do is invest a lump sum from as little as £1,000 or start a regular savings plan from £50.
With more than 50 years’ experience we’ve already earned the trust of over one million UK investors.
Start investing in just a few steps, with 24/7 online access from your computer, tablet or phone.
Enjoy low costs, no initial charges and no additional fees to switch or exit.
A Junior Stock and Shares ISA is a type of savings account that allows you to invest in a wide range of investments. It is a tax efficient way to save on behalf of a child.
Child Trust Funds (CTFs) were available to children born between 1 September 2002 and 2 January 2011.  Junior ISAs replaced CTFs from 1 November 2011.
A child can only hold one Cash and one Stocks and Shares Junior ISA.
The total contribution between both accounts must not exceed the annual allowance of £4,368.
Please note that a child cannot hold both a Junior ISA and Child Trust Fund (CTF).
To open a Fidelity Junior ISA on behalf of a child, you can apply through our 

Withdrawal from a Junior ISA can only occur after the child reaches 18 years of age. If your child becomes terminally ill, you can request to access money in the Junior ISA by completing the HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) terminal illness early access form.
If your child passes away, the Junior ISA will be paid to whoever inherits their estate (usually a parent or legal guardian).
No, a child cannot have both a CTF and a Junior ISA. If they have a CTF, this will need to be transferred into the Junior ISA upon opening one. Please note that Fidelity does not allow for CTF transfers into a Junior ISA.
Make sure you have the following information with you:
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 


Update your browser





                                8 February 2019
                            
Large scale infrastructure projects need long-term planning, construction and maintenance as well as patient and committed capital from the get go.
That’s why investors interested in the sector often find themselves looking to infrastructure investment trusts for access to opportunities in the space.
The closed-ended nature of a trust, like that of the 
With the largest of these holdings taking up around 8% of the portfolio, investors are not exposed too heavily to a single investment - a characteristic designed to mitigate the effect one project can have on the long-term growth of the fund.
Seekings puts this steadiness right at the heart of the company’s aims: “We are seeking to deliver long-term stable income from a diversified portfolio of infrastructure investments, positioned at the lower end of the risk spectrum.”
In practice, this means backing projects in three main areas, in order to benefit from regular repayment for years to come. Around 70% of the portfolio is invested in public-private partnership (PPP) projects with the company delivering and maintaining an asset over a period of around 30 to 35 years in exchange for a steady payment stream from public sector clients.
Thank you. We've emailed you to confirm your subscription.
Another 20% of the portfolio is invested in demand-based assets where revenues depend on the usage of a structure such as a toll road. And lastly, around 8-9% of the trust is allocated to regulated assets - these are typically monopolies where a regulator is balancing the interests of customers and investors. Examples here include one of the trust’s largest holdings Affinity Water, and its exposure to offshore transmission cables connecting offshore windfarms to the UK national grid.
For the manager, all of the investments made by the company must have a common context of providing stable, predictable and, importantly, long-term cashflows. A welcome benefit Seekings points out is the low correlation this income shares with the wider UK market, providing investors with greater diversification through alternative payment sources to the traditional big dividend payers.
Private sector Labour pains?
Recent political conversations around infrastructure projects have raised questions over the future durability of the sector, if the UK were to have a change in government.
However, Seekings is keen to point out the value added by private sector participation in public-private partnerships: “I don’t think there’s any great secret around the Labour Party’s plans to potentially nationalise regulated utilities and they’ve even talked about terminating some private finance initiative (PFI) contracts as well.
“I think we’re some way from that happening at the moment but I think if we take a step back it’s worth reflecting on why the private sector was involved in the first place. PFI contracts transfer significant delivery risks to the private sector - to provide, construct and maintain assets which are then used by the public sector services. We take on those risks and we believe the return the portfolio generates compensates shareholders for taking those risks.”
More on the 
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Mixed asset portfolios set up for the long term
Daniel Lane
Fidelity Personal Investing
Hitting ESG targets with a firm focus on profit
Daniel Lane
Fidelity Personal Investing
Getting the balance right
Emma-Lou Montgomery
Fidelity Personal Investing
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                21 February 2019
                            
Lowland Investment Company
And it has a record of doing just that. An investment trust focused on the UK, its dividend has grown at a compounded annual rate of 7.3% since 1993 and has risen in cash terms in the vast majority of those years. That’s a great comfort for investors using their investment to provide an income.
To achieve it, the investment trust has an approach that Laura Foll, who co-manages the trust with James Henderson, describes as “a third, a third, a third”. That’s a third in smaller companies, a third in medium sized companies and a third in large companies.
“Small and medium sized companies tend to have a much greater level of sales and earnings growth”, she says. “And that usually means they can deliver dividend growth as well.”
The consistently rising dividend that Lowland has paid has been helped by its investment trust structure, which allows fund managers to better control the flow of income to investors than is possible in an open-ended fund. When underlying companies pay dividends, Lowland can chose to pay this all out to its shareholders or hold some back for future years. 
The ‘multi-cap’ approach means that the make-up of the Lowland portfolio looks different from the UK market, with a greater weighting in smaller companies and less in the giant multinational companies that dominate the FTSE All Share index. Foll explained that Lowland is about 50% exposed to companies earning their profits in the UK, compared to about 25% for the market overall.
The approach has had implications in the period since the 2016 referendum on the UK’s membership of the European Union. After the vote to leave there was a fall in the value of the pound and a widening of the valuations of domestic facing companies (which are hurt by weak sterling and slower UK growth) relative to those that make their sales overseas.
Thank you. We've emailed you to confirm your subscription.
Foll puts this difference in valuations at about 20%. As it is more exposed to domestic companies, Lowland would benefit from any reversal of the trend that has been put in place since the EU referendum. It may underperform if the trend continues.
Like all investment trusts, the value of Lowland’s shares moves independently from the value of the underlying assets. Foll said that it was usual for the shares to trade at around a 3% discount to Net Asset Value.
More on the 
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. Investors should note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon. Reference to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities and is included for the purposes of illustration only. This fund invests more heavily than others in smaller companies, which can carry a higher risk because their share prices may be more volatile than those of larger companies. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
A closer look at some of the funds we offer.
Investors should note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon.
The value of investments can go down as well as up so you may get back less than you invest. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.


Mixed asset portfolios set up for the long term


Hitting ESG targets with a firm focus on profit


Getting the balance right


Interesting approaches to the land of the rising sun


Gold mining shares offer another way to diversify


Income from UK dividends maximised


Loving the unloved


Busting the small cap myths


Scottish Mortgage on the importance of unquoted investments


When it comes to long-term investing, few funds can match the credentials of the F&C Investment Trust.


ESG trailblazer well-placed as the rest catch up


Looking for steady growth around the world


Ketan Patel knows his fund was a pioneer


Steadily rising income that’s made in Britain


Long-term investing with long-term assets


Why the glass is half-full for UK dividends


Unloved, misunderstood or forgotten stocks


Shedding light on responsible investing


How to invest in uncertain times


Opportunity in connectivity


The future in focus.


Discerning approaches to technology


Simple but not easy


The Aussie rules to investing


Investors turn to sustainability


Fitzgerald on Brexit



    Show 
The objective of this section is to present users with objective news, information, data and guidance on personal finance topics drawn from a diverse collection of sources including affiliated and non-affiliated financial services publications. Content is not intended to provide tax, legal, insurance or investment advice and should not be construed as an offer to sell, a solicitation of an offer to buy, or a recommendation for any security or investment by any Fidelity entity or any third-party.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser




The markets may have their polemic periods of dizzying volatility and eerie calm but uncertainty never really leaves the investment arena.
As investors, we all respond to the ups and downs differently but really, reacting when things are still changing can be an act of panic rather than considered decision-making. We don’t tend to make the best choices under pressure so it’s vital we set ourselves up well beforehand - if nothing else, to save us from ourselves.
Here are three funds from the 

Investec Global Gold
When the outlook turns particularly hazy gold often becomes the port of call for nervous investors but there is a lot more to the asset according to George Cheveley, manager of the Invest Global Gold Fund.
Rather than buying bullion, as many do in a flight to safety, the manager mainly holds a range of listed global companies focused on gold production. Cheveley and his team spend their time investigating and meeting these firms around the world. He explains the approach:
“We don’t invest much of our money in pure exploration companies and we don’t invest in companies below $100m in market cap so we’re not investing in very small exploration plays hoping they find gold. What we prefer to invest in are companies who are actually producing gold and producing cash as a result.”
The reason behind seeking out producers rather than the metal itself lies in the amplification effect a company can provide, especially when gold prices begin to rise. The manager explains:
“A company producing gold has a lot of fixed costs, so as prices rise their profitability goes up by a faster rate than gold does. In addition to that, companies are clearly exploring, finding and hopefully producing more gold so you get growth in production and volume, which again increases profitability. Particularly in a rising gold price environment we can see companies improving their operations, producing more gold, and adding to potential returns.”
All of this means investors can benefit from growth in the price of the metal as well as the company producing it. Even in a flat gold price environment a miner can cut costs to increase their margins and reinvest earnings into the business for future growth.
Fidelity Special Situations
For investors who know there is opportunity in volatility but would rather leave the execution to the professionals, a value contrarian approach can help. Fidelity Special Situations has a long history of ticking that box as a bottom-up stock-picking fund, looking for unloved or overlooked companies with the potential to provide investors with positive returns.
Manager Alex Wright describes his investment approach as “looking for stocks that other investors have tarred with an unfairly negative brush and which are therefore trading at below their medium-term value.” He then works hard to identify what the catalyst might be for that prevailing negative view to change.
The reason that value investing has tended to outperform over time is that profits and investment returns have a tendency to revert to the mean. When they are low, they can be expected to bounce back in due course.
Of course, it is possible that the rules of the game have changed thanks to forces like technological disruption. Because of this Wright undertakes deep due diligence on potential investments and taps into Fidelity’s large team of analysts to help him do the necessary research. This ensures that he can avoid so-called value-traps, shares which look cheap but which end up cheaper still.
Jupiter Absolute Return
Simple, good and very different. That’s how James Clunie describes the approach to investing he employs in running the Jupiter Absolute Return Fund. The manager aims to deliver a positive return for investors over a rolling three-year period by investing mainly in equities.
However, it’s not all one-way traffic in the manager’s use of equities in the fund, as he explains: “We’re different from other funds in that I’m actually net short of equities, so this fund would enjoy it if markets went down - that’s really unusual. It would also enjoy it if a number of other things went wrong in the world.”
The end result of the strategy is that the fund often moves in the opposite direction to a lot of other assets - an aspect the manager believes offers investors a useful tool to balance other investments in their portfolios, especially during bouts or market turmoil. But for Clunie, the diversification on offer plays second fiddle to the niche speciality the fund displays in seeking positive returns.
He explains: “I think we’re good at single stock short selling - identifying stocks that are likely to fall and benefiting from that on behalf of our clients. That edge, or skill, is developed through understanding data around negative news, practices and important behaviours in short sellers that we spend years training to identify. So, simple, potentially good through our shorting and very different through our risk profile - that’s how we differentiate ourselves.”
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. Investors should note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon. Select 50 is not a personal recommendation to buy or sell a fund. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                8 October 2018
                            
Maple-Brown Abbott might not yet be a household name among UK investors. The Sydney-based boutique has 54 staff running its operations from down under and focuses on investing in global infrastructure, as well as Australian and Asia Pacific-listed equities. And it is the latter opportunity set which informs portfolio selection for the 
Manager Geoff Bazzan takes a value approach to investing in the region, looking for companies currently trading below their intrinsic value, however there is ample attention given to reducing the risk of falling into so-called value traps.
Bazzan explains: "We tend to be conservative. We ask a lot of questions regarding the downside of prospective investments before we consider how much money we could make. We focus a lot on things like balance sheet strength, dividend support, and as long-term investors we often tend to be contrarian. We’ve found the best opportunities to generate good long-term returns is through buying in periods of great uncertainty or market weakness."
The Asia Pacific area gives the manager one of the largest regional collections of potential additions to the portfolio - the scale of which the manager acknowledges and looks to whittle down at once.
He explains: "Including China’s A-shares, there are almost as many companies listed in the Asia ex-Japan region with a market value greater than $1billion than there are in the US and Europe combined. We use a number of quantitative screens to direct us to areas of the market that might be worthy of further qualitative fundamental research by our analysts."
So, are emerging market companies that different from their developed market neighbours?
For Bazzan, the similarities are greater than the differences, meaning the analysts at Maple-Brown Abbott study the same factors driving company valuations in Asia as they do elsewhere.
However, Asia does throw up its own challenges, as the manager explains: “One difference is that Asia can be more of a cyclical region by virtue of reliance on trade or more cyclical industries, so that can make earnings more volatile and make share prices more volatile as a result. As fundamental long-term investors, that can present opportunities to buy but it means we also need to be cognisant of when to sell. Across the region there are 14 different markets so you have currencies and country-specific factors to consider but fundamentally we are investing along the same premise as we do in Australia."
In fact, comparing emerging and developed markets and their presence in the portfolio is becoming less important for the manager, who points to the closing gap between Eastern and Western economies. He says: "I have to say, if you've visited places like Korea or many cities in China recently, it would be hard not to conclude that they are very developed in most respects."
With around 45% of the portfolio exposed to China, the manager is looking beyond current trade tariff headlines, stricter credit controls and national growth rates in the country, and is focusing more on the country’s continued transition away from being the world’s toy factory to a nation of consumption.
Bazzan explains: "The extent to which they can manage that transition towards a domestic consumer-based economy is only a positive I think, for the long-term sustainability of China’s growth. We tend not to be too focused on headline growth rates on a macroeconomic level - there is a lot of evidence to suggest that companies often perform much better than what the headline data might suggest."
More on the 
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. Overseas investments will be affected by movements in currency exchange rates. Select 50 is not a personal recommendation to buy or sell a fund. Investments in emerging markets can be more volatile than other more developed markets. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
We all know our investments affect the world around us. And we are becoming more interested than ever in the environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards of the companies we invest in.
Fund managers in the sustainable, ethical and socially responsible investing (SRI) space put these concerns at the heart of their investment processes. They look to generate returns and benefit society at the same time.
Find out more here on the merits of ESG investing and browse the funds looking to make a positive impact on society and the environment as well as your portfolio. 
The value of investments can go down as well as up so you may get back less than you invest. This is not a personal recommendation to buy funds. Equally, if a fund you own is not on the list, we’re not recommending you sell it. You must ensure that any fund you choose to invest in is suitable for your own personal circumstances.
Our investment director Tom Stevenson sheds some light on what ESG investing is all about and the different ways investors can tap into the theme.​​​
Dan
Tom, thanks for coming in. So ESG, another three letter acronym for investors to get used to, first of all what does it stand for?
Tom
The E is about the environment, so this is looking for companies and investigating the impact that they have on the environment around them. So it might be looking at issues around pollution, for example or water, waste management, climate change, all of those kinds of issues.
The S is about society or social aspects, so this might be looking at employment practices of companies, making sure they’re not involved in modern day slavery for example, just looking at how they treat their employees.
The G is about the governance, so this is about how a company fits in with the regulations surrounding its industry for example but also issues around senior manager pay for example, that’s a big issue in governance at the moment. So that’s ESG.
Dan
Tom
I think the second reason is the sort of warm and fuzzy thing which we associate with maybe ethical investing. I think increasingly people are concerned about putting their money to good use, they don’t want to be backing companies that they feel are doing the wrong thing. They want companies to be aligned to their values.
Dan
Tom
At the other end of the spectrum I think you’ve got investors looking for companies that are making a positive impact on society and the environment. This is sometimes called impact investing. And then in the middle I think this is actually the more interesting area. This is where investors are
looking to engage with companies to help them become more sustainable and to guide them and to learn with them about how they can become better long-term companies.
Dan
Tom
Dan
Tom
Dan
Tom
Hitting ESG targets with a firm focus on profit
Daniel Lane
Fidelity Personal Investing
Welcome to the future of investing
Graham Smith
Market Commentator
Environmental considerations are no longer a ‘nice to have’
Tom Stevenson
Investment Director
Shedding light on responsible investing
Don’t let ESG perfection be the enemy of good
Do ethical funds have an image problem?
Here are the top 10 most bought and sold ESG funds by our customers on the Fidelity website in the month of July 2019.
The value of investments can go down as well as up so you may get back less than you invest. This information is not a personal recommendation in respect of a particular investment. If you need additional help, please speak to a financial adviser. You should regularly reassess the suitability of your investments to ensure they continue to meet your attitude to risk and investment goals.








































Please note that the Investment Manager’s focus on securities of companies which maintain strong environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) credentials may result in a return that at times compares unfavourably to similar products without such focus.  No representation nor warranty is made with respect to the fairness, accuracy or completeness of such credentials.  The status of a security’s ESG credentials can change over time.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                28 September 2018
                            
Do you know where your money goes when you invest it?
Well, it's 
More and more investors are questioning what it means to be a responsible shareholder and, as generational attitudes towards corporate accountability change, investors are becoming increasingly concerned with matching their money to their morals.
And while it's true that the entire investment industry is facing growing pressure to adhere to stricter environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) standards, investors keen to ensure their money is a force for good can turn to a side of the industry designed to do just that.
This is where opinion starts to split among those focused on ethical investment and those solely looking for investment returns. Now, more than ever, I'm not sure that it needs to.
Raising the standard
The ethical end of fund management brings with it images of wind farms and solar panels, and drags up the old conversation around giving up gains to satisfy personal beliefs. It has become all too easy to fall into seeing this side of the industry as a set of niche funds focused on saving the environment but, for Rathbone’s Bryn Jones, investors stuck with these outdated views of ethical strategies might find they are the ones giving up gains over the long run.
While environmental concerns inevitably form part of the conversation, the manager of the 
"Over the past few years we've seen a number of situations where businesses have had very poor governance or have done damage to the environment and investors have lost a lot of money. Investors have started to realise that a sustainable income comes from a sustainable business model with strong environmental, social and governance standards."
Far from eschewing long-term gains, ethical funds' extra due diligence seeks to weed out companies with subpar ESG standards, which have the potential to hurt shareholders if imprudent practices hit the balance sheet.
A common misconception within the space is that this is where the ethical label ends, but rather than just looking to leave out companies that don’t hit the mark, there is also considerable scope to look for companies that seek to do good. Jones explains his approach: "We have a negative screening process which avoids companies with certain negative practices. These can range from environmental damage, mineral extraction, animal testing and pornography to gambling, tobacco and alcohol production. Then our positive screen looks for evidence of social or environmental change, gender equality in employment and work with charities, among other criteria. So, we're not only looking at negative things, we’re also looking for something that's nice and solid that gives a business a strong ethical bias.”
David Osfield, manager of the 
Like Jones, Osfield employs both positive and negative screens but with a focus on adding companies to the portfolio that actively contribute to society. He explains, "We do screen out companies that have over 10% exposure to areas that do harm to society, like tobacco and arms, but really the essence of the stock picking selection is on the positive screening; looking at companies that actually create solutions, that create products that are going to help society tackle some of the biggest problems they can see.
"Looking at how we see companies responding to these challenges sustainably, be it obesity, climate change, waste, etc., drives conviction and allows us to invest for the long-term."
However, both managers also agree that investors should not mistake ethical mandates for philanthropy. Jones is pragmatic, as he explains his strict investment criteria: "We don’t invest in something just because it's ethical. In terms of our process, it’s very much focused on big themes - we look at the state of a company's balance sheet and the likelihood that it will pay us back. We look at the valuation - is it cheap enough for us to buy, and then has it got an ethical screen? We think that if you can get those four things together you’re going to get a very good investment."
So, do investors pay a price for doing the right thing?
No, says Osfield: "There's been an enormous amount of academic research and commercial investment bank-led research about these strategies and they’ve found a positive approach has led to superior risk-adjusted returns over the long term.
"Also, as the quality of information improves, and as companies really get a handle on what it means to be sustainable and put it into practice, I think we’ll see these companies exhibiting those good behaviours and delivering products which will generate even further outperformance."
Osfield points to advancements in battery storage capabilities, cheaper access to basic medicine and leaps forward in waste management as areas that benefit society and provide shareholders with opportunity to profit at the same time.
Jones is equally sure that closer attention to socially beneficial investment can lead to positive outcomes for shareholders, stimulating further societal good.
He explains: "it's a bit of a chicken and egg question really - social return can lead to an investment return which leads to the social return, so you get a virtuous circle and we’re quite often looking for that. In particular, in the social housing space - if you create a community where people want to live, they're going to pay their rent and property prices will go up as a result."
More on the 
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. Investors should note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                17 January 2019
                            
Shopping in other people’s dustbins doesn’t sound like the most attractive prospect at the best of times. However, that’s exactly how Investec’s Alastair Mundy describes the approach he takes to buying shares for the 
Heading up the trust since 2002, Mundy employs a disciplined investment process focused on making long-term investments in cheap, out-of-favour companies he feels the market has unfairly cast aside.
He begins by running companies with a market capitalisation over £200 million through a screening process to highlight the weakest performing shares. Once identified, the significantly underperforming stocks are examined, with special attention given to their valuation, the strength of their balance sheets and the inherent risk they carry.
A detailed analyst report and subsequent peer review allow Mundy and the team to decide which opportunities have the potential to be added to the trust.
Swimming against the tide
Contrarian investing can be a lonely pursuit, and for fund managers judged on their performance, sometimes it’s easier to fail along with the crowd than stick to a view that goes against consensus. What’s more, the nature of this deep value investing means buying into an unattractive story that has the potential to be uglier still.
The skill here is in differentiating those companies that are cheap for a reason from those set to bounce back - but this takes time. Arguably this is one of the main advantages of using an investment trust to employ this approach.
As the fund is closed-ended, meaning Mundy doesn’t have to worry about constant inflows and withdrawals, the manager can put capital to work knowing he won’t have to compromise his strategy to meet redemptions. As turnaround stories can take time to come to fruition, this ability to wait should not be underestimated.
And that’s not the only advantage of the closed-ended set-up Mundy enjoys.
Thank you. We've emailed you to confirm your subscription.
The 92 year old trust has a long-term track record of dividend growth, and in 2018 increased its dividend for the 35th consecutive year. This growth has been achieved despite some years of low dividend growth in the underlying portfolio, notably in 2000 and 2009 when many companies were actually reducing their dividend. Mundy has been able to continue this record thanks to the trust structure, which allows management to conserve surplus income when the going is good, in order to smooth payments to investors in periods when income is hard to come by.
This puts the Temple Bar portfolio among the trusts labelled 
The trust currently holds some of the biggest dividend payers in the UK in the form of 
For investors looking to diversify their portfolio with exposure to a true contrarian strategy, Temple Bar may be attractive.
As investors, we often fall into the trap of identifying a cheap stock but dithering when it comes to deciding if it is actually good value. This is where it can be worth outsourcing the heavy lifting to the professionals, with analyst teams like Mundy’s answering the difficult questions for you.
More on the 
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. Reference to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities and is included for the purposes of illustration only. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
We all know our investments affect the world around us. And we are becoming more interested than ever in the environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards of the companies we invest in.
Fund managers in the sustainable, ethical and socially responsible investing (SRI) space put these concerns at the heart of their investment processes. They look to generate returns and benefit society at the same time.
Find out more here on the merits of ESG investing and browse the funds looking to make a positive impact on society and the environment as well as your portfolio. 
The value of investments can go down as well as up so you may get back less than you invest. This is not a personal recommendation to buy funds. Equally, if a fund you own is not on the list, we’re not recommending you sell it. You must ensure that any fund you choose to invest in is suitable for your own personal circumstances.
Our investment director Tom Stevenson sheds some light on what ESG investing is all about and the different ways investors can tap into the theme.​​​
Dan
Tom, thanks for coming in. So ESG, another three letter acronym for investors to get used to, first of all what does it stand for?
Tom
The E is about the environment, so this is looking for companies and investigating the impact that they have on the environment around them. So it might be looking at issues around pollution, for example or water, waste management, climate change, all of those kinds of issues.
The S is about society or social aspects, so this might be looking at employment practices of companies, making sure they’re not involved in modern day slavery for example, just looking at how they treat their employees.
The G is about the governance, so this is about how a company fits in with the regulations surrounding its industry for example but also issues around senior manager pay for example, that’s a big issue in governance at the moment. So that’s ESG.
Dan
Tom
I think the second reason is the sort of warm and fuzzy thing which we associate with maybe ethical investing. I think increasingly people are concerned about putting their money to good use, they don’t want to be backing companies that they feel are doing the wrong thing. They want companies to be aligned to their values.
Dan
Tom
At the other end of the spectrum I think you’ve got investors looking for companies that are making a positive impact on society and the environment. This is sometimes called impact investing. And then in the middle I think this is actually the more interesting area. This is where investors are
looking to engage with companies to help them become more sustainable and to guide them and to learn with them about how they can become better long-term companies.
Dan
Tom
Dan
Tom
Dan
Tom
Hitting ESG targets with a firm focus on profit
Daniel Lane
Fidelity Personal Investing
Welcome to the future of investing
Graham Smith
Market Commentator
Environmental considerations are no longer a ‘nice to have’
Tom Stevenson
Investment Director
Shedding light on responsible investing
Don’t let ESG perfection be the enemy of good
Do ethical funds have an image problem?
Here are the top 10 most bought and sold ESG funds by our customers on the Fidelity website in the month of July 2019.
The value of investments can go down as well as up so you may get back less than you invest. This information is not a personal recommendation in respect of a particular investment. If you need additional help, please speak to a financial adviser. You should regularly reassess the suitability of your investments to ensure they continue to meet your attitude to risk and investment goals.








































Please note that the Investment Manager’s focus on securities of companies which maintain strong environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) credentials may result in a return that at times compares unfavourably to similar products without such focus.  No representation nor warranty is made with respect to the fairness, accuracy or completeness of such credentials.  The status of a security’s ESG credentials can change over time.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
Find out how to make the most of the tax-efficient pension allowances with our handy guides. They can help you understand what allowances and limits might apply to you and how to maximise your pension savings.
Tax relief is a government tax-break intended to encourage you to save for your retirement. The amount of tax relief you are entitled to depends on a range of factors relating to your personal situation. We can help you understand more about how the tax relief rules might affect your contributions.
The lifetime allowance is set by the government to limit how much you can build up in pension benefits over your lifetime while still enjoying full tax benefits. We can help you understand more about how you can manage this allowance to maximise the tax efficiency of your pensions.
The annual allowance is the limit on how much you can save into your pensions each tax-year while still benefiting from tax relief on your contributions, any employer contributions and any contributions made on your behalf by someone else.
The tapered annual allowance further limits the amount of tax relief high earners can claim on their pension contributions by reducing the annual allowance. Read more about how this might affect you and the steps you can take to make your contributions more tax-efficient.
Carry forward allows you to make use of unused annual allowances from the three previous tax years if you have used up your annual allowance for the current tax year, thus increasing the amount of tax relief you can claim. Find out how this works and how you might be able to claim it.
Once you begin taking taxable money from your pension pot using pension freedoms, generally you will be subject to a reduced annual allowance that limits the tax relief that you can receive on future contributions. Find out more about how and if this might affect you.
Our women & money section offers a female perspective on the intricacies of investment and retirement. Working with Fidelity, women can realise their financial strength.
The value of investments can go down as well as up, and you may get back less than you invest. The eligibility to invest in a pension depends on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser. You will not normally be able to withdraw money from a pension until you are 55.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                17 April 2019
                            
The 
As its manager Charlie Thomas explains, its name is evocative of the era in which it was conceived.
“The Ecology fund is 30 years old”, he says. “Ecology was very much the word in vogue at the time in relation to environmental issues. You hear it less these days but we’ve kept it.”
These days, the Ecology Fund rubs shoulders with many more-recently launched funds that call themselves ‘ethical’, or otherwise adhere to an ESG - environmental, social, governance - agenda. The space has become more crowded and has led to potential confusion among investors about how different funds apply their principles, according to Thomas.
He says: “I see three broad camps of funds. At one end you’ve got ethical funds which simply exclude certain sectors on ethical grounds. In the middle are ESG funds which will look at companies’ environmental, social and governance standards, and select based on those. At the far end are the funds which only pick companies that deliver a solution - a product or a service - to environmental or social problems. Jupiter Ecology sits in this last camp.”
This approach makes the Jupiter Ecology one of the ‘darkest green’ ethical funds - meaning its ESG principles affect the stock-picking process in a significant way.
“We are a global fund but our universe of stocks is only about 1,200 companies”, Thomas says. ”The companies we invest in have to offer solutions to problems and this has tended to lead us to mid-cap companies, which is where a lot of the innovation comes from.
“Traditionally, a lot of our opportunities have come from Europe but that is changing. North America and in particular Asia are now vibrant areas for us.”
Thomas and his team split companies into three main groups and look for opportunities in each. First are companies exposed to population growth, particularly growth in the middle class population. This is most acute in Asia and Africa. Second are those companies operating in areas affected by environmental rules which may need solutions in response - a rare example of an investor welcoming more regulation. Finally, those companies providing solutions in the area of renewable and efficient energy.
Thank you. We've emailed you to confirm your subscription.
Thomas argues that funds like his should be seen almost as a separate asset classes versus go-anywhere equity funds, because of the ethical principles being applied when picking stocks.
That said, he believes a strict approach to ESG concerns does not have to mean turning down returns. There is widening acknowledgement that all companies will have to improve their ESG standing not only because it’s the correct thing to do, but in order to avoid damaging reputational damage or punishing regulations.
As the effects of climate change, as well as trends like population ageing and growth, become more visible and acute, the demand for the companies identified by the Jupiter Ecology Fund will only increase.
More on the 
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. Overseas investments will be affected by movements in currency exchange rates. The Investment Manager’s focus on securities of companies which maintain strong environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) credentials may result in a return that at times compares unfavourably to similar products without such focus. No representation nor warranty is made with respect to the fairness, accuracy or completeness of such credentials. The status of a security’s ESG credentials can change over time. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                14 September 2018
                            
“Brexit is going to be hanging over investors, fund managers and the country for a considerable period of time.” says Peter Fitzgerald, co-manager of the 
Over two years on from the referendum, investors in the UK are waiting for firm evidence of what a post-EU world will look like for Britain and Northern Ireland. But the final deal itself is not the end of uncertainty, says Fitzgerald: “The reality is that there will be a number of years after the implementation of a deal when it is put into practice. The question you must ask yourself is - how much of this is already priced in?”
While investors might be focusing on the effect on the UK economy of Brexit negotiations, Fitzgerald is more concerned about the potential for the situation to add to existing international trade tensions.
With a view to protecting capital, the manager explains how he is navigating the situation: “We’ve actually got a portfolio that would probably be slightly more cautious today than we would normally have because of the uncertainty generated particularly around Donald Trump and his stance with regard to trade. So, while we do have elements of the portfolio that are exposed to the global economy, we also have positions such as long dollar positions that are really there to protect us in case these trade tensions turn into a proper trade war.”
This attention to protecting the downside informs the ‘risk-reducing returns’ section of the portfolio, in which investment ideas are made to mitigate markets entering turbulent times or the managers getting decisions wrong.
Fitzgerald is pragmatic in his explanation: “We spend as much time thinking about the risk as we do thinking about the potential returns we can make; we have a real focus on portfolio construction and risk management. If we do get things wrong, and as portfolio managers we hate to admit it but we do get things wrong from time to time, or we enter difficult periods in the market our real objective is to protect capital. We believe that really sets us apart from others who focus almost exclusively on the return side rather than protecting capital if things go wrong.
Further to this, the manager employs a blend of traditional asset classes including equities, bonds and real estate investment trusts (REITs) along with more value-based opportunities, aiming to grow investors’ capital.
Fitzgerald looks at all investment opportunities on a two to three-year timeframe, with companies in Europe and further afield currently attracting his attention. He explains: “We think there are opportunities in some of the European small and mid-cap companies because Europe has been, as we see it, unfairly de-rated and unloved. We think there is opportunity in some areas in Japan, where you see low interest rates - that can be quite interesting if you can find REITS, for example, generating a yield of 3-4%. And we also think there are opportunities in some emerging markets but one needs to be very selective there, rather than allocating blindly to that part of the world.”
More on the 
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. Investors should note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon. Overseas investments will be affected by movements in currency exchange rates. Investments in emerging markets can be more volatile than other more developed markets. Select 50 is not a personal recommendation to buy or sell a fund. This fund uses financial derivative instruments for investment purposes, which may expose the fund to a higher degree of risk and can cause investments to experience larger than average price fluctuations. There is a risk that the issuers of bonds may not be able to repay the money they have borrowed or make interest payments. When interest rates rise, bonds may fall in value. Rising interest rates may cause the value of your investment to fall. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                27 June 2019
                            
Fidelity Enhanced Income Fund
And while some UK equity income funds may be content to match the income yield of the market but little more, Enhanced Income is looking to decisively beat it. To do that, the fund’s manager Michael Clark not only seeks out high dividend paying stocks, but employs call options to boost income even further.
The process adds a layer of complexity to the fund’s management but at the heart of the call option process is a relatively simple bargain - the fund will agree to sell the right to buy a stock at an agreed price to a third party, and will adds the proceeds of that sale to the income being paid to investors.
It’s sometimes described as giving up part of total return in exchange for extra income. “There’s an element of truth in that,” Clark tells me. “It doesn’t always happen, but if you think about it the call option allows a third party to buy a stock from you at an agreed price, and if the real price rises above that, then you give up extra gain. But the process - when you do it systematically - allows us to add to the yield.”
It is that extra yield which makes the fund stand out and appeal to a certain type of investor. Its yield at the time of writing is 7%, above the 5% that Clark says the fund would produce without the call option process and well clear of the around 4% that the UK market has produced historically. For those using investments to live from, including in retirement, that level of yield is attractive, particularly if they are less concerned with capital growth. Please note this yield is not guaranteed and will fluctuate with the market.
Thank you. We've emailed you to confirm your subscription.
Clark must seek out strong dividends, of course, and he is cautiously optimistic that the UK will continue to produce shareholder rewards. “The UK market is actually quite defensive,” he says. “The mix of companies in the Footsie have produced dividends that have held up well during slowdowns in global growth. There will always be cuts - and we have seen some, like 
Income levels on the UK market are dependent on a small group of very large payers, but Clark says this dividend concentration has eased versus four or five years ago, and that there’s now a healthy base of strong payers.
That doesn’t mean there aren’t risks. “When you see a yield at 9 or 10% it’s often the case that it isn’t delivered. One of the issues we’re watching closely right now is over-indebtedness. After nine or ten years of very low interest rates, some companies now have big debts and any slowdown immediately puts dividends under pressure. That’s essentially what happened with Vodafone and it’s something we always try to avoid.”
More on 
Important information
The value of investments can go down as well as up so you may get back less than you invest. Investors should note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon. Select 50 is not a personal recommendation to buy or sell a fund. Reference to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities and is included for the purposes of illustration only. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                30 November 2018
                            
We’re living longer. Life expectancies around the world are rising and in no small part thanks to massive leaps forward in healthcare standards. From drug development, disease detection and eradication to pioneering research into artificial limb technology, the trajectory of discovery and treatment is only set to rise throughout this century.
With long-term demographic changes often hinging on eureka moments as well as sustained improvements in basic access to healthcare, particularly in developing markets, investors are becoming increasingly attracted to opportunities for returns in the sector.
Companies in the space range from experimental biotechs pinning their hopes on drug trial success to steady producers of long-term treatments and therapies. As a result, investors need to be highly selective in their allocation to the sector and stay on top of evolving business models, treatment studies and more recently, governmental intervention into pricing and supply. For most, this volume of attention is impossible. Fortunately, the 

Fidelity Enhanced Income
Fund manager Michael Clark holds popular UK pharma firms 
Both companies seek to develop medicines for a vast range of conditions, with GSK also producing retail products like Night Nurse and Sensodyne toothpaste.
Big, familiar dividend payers, the companies fit well with Clark’s aims, although the manager’s overall strategy might be new to some equity income investors.
Clark explains: “We invest in companies that pay sustainable and growing dividends. We aim for a 7% yield, although that’s not guaranteed, of which 5% tends to come from these companies. The other 2% comes from covered call overwriting where we generate a premium on a systematic basis. That’s the enhancement process.”
Away from the options strategy, Clark is still interested in growing companies that generate a lot of cash out of their operations to allow them to pay a dividend as well as invest in themselves. This means the fund may be of interest to investors aiming for a consistent high yield from their investments while keeping an eye on capital preservation.
So what’s more important to the manager: growth or income?
He explains: “We’re looking for both actually. We need the income obviously but we need a company that can grow; where we can make a forecast about it, where we can say that in three, four or five years’ time that it will be bigger than it is today and will be generating significantly more income than it is today.”
Jupiter European Special Situations
Focusing on the fundamentals, Cédric de Fonclare looks for companies whose growth expectations are mispriced by the market and who ought to grow faster than GDP. Then it’s a case of making sure he doesn’t overpay for that growth potential.
The approach is highly company-specific, rather than scanning at the sector or national level, and allows the manager to get in to the nuts and bolts of the companies he’s interested in. He explains: “We meet the management and have a broader view of the industry of our companies by meeting competitors, suppliers and clients to understand the shape of the industry.
“After that it’s about understanding what’s driving the business: Are they sustainable? How do they protect their profitability? What is the management’s strategy - are they willing to spend more money or return more money to shareholders?”
Companies ticking all the boxes include pharma and diagnostics firm Roche, German dialysis specialist Fresenius Medical Care, global diabetes treatment leader Novo Nordisk, and multinational pharma and life sciences group Bayer.
Invesco Perpetual European Equity Income
Stephanie Butcher’s European Equity Income fund also features Basel-based Roche as a top holding, and is joined by fellow Swiss multinational Novartis, one of the largest pharma companies in the sector. French multinational Sanofi also appears in Butcher’s top ten names as the manager seeks to grow investors’ money through a blend of capital growth and consistent dividend streams.
The politics of the past two years have destabilised investor confidence in Europe somewhat but Butcher remains resolute on the reasons to look past the headlines.
She explains: “At the end of the day we’re investing in corporates which have continued to deliver cash flows and yields and I think that’s where the opportunity lies; to move beyond the politics and focus on the companies.”
Talking a long-term view, she says is critical to investment success: “ I think it’s very easy to be thrown about by short-term news flow and volatility. It can be very disconcerting. But if you’ve done your investment process on the basis of investing in a company and been with them for three to five years it becomes much, much clearer where you’re aiming at. And therefore you know what you genuinely have to worry about, and what you don’t.
“Quite often I’ll know there’s a quarter coming up that won’t be great, but I don’t care, because I know that the company’s on track on a long term basis and I think that is the key to the process I use.”
An unwavering focus on valuation has long been the driver of income for the fund and there is absolutely no reason to change that in the face of political uncertainty – or any other uncertainties, says the manager: “Valuation is absolutely key to what we do. That’s the starting point. So we are agnostic as to sector or individual companies or factors beyond the valuation driver.
“We’re pretty pragmatic and we don’t have a pre-conceived idea of what are income sectors, if you like. And that’s meant we quite often move to areas that are maybe somewhat out of favour but they are also where you often get a really great combination of yield and under valuation, which can be quite a powerful driver of returns over time.”
More on the 
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. Investors should note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon. Overseas investments will be affected by movements in currency exchange rates. Reference to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities and is included for the purposes of illustration only. Select 50 is not a personal recommendation to buy or sell a fund. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                28 September 2018
                            
It's 
And it seems like investors have fairly staunch views on this niche side of the industry; while a few will invest in nothing but ethical strategies, quite a number of voices stick to the opinion that morals have no place in the markets. I’m just not convinced it’s as black and white as that.
In fact, the more I speak to investors the more I’m likely to equate the entrenched views (either way) with a rather antiquated perception of what ethical investing is all about. Millennials in particular are leading the pack in wanting to know how the sausages are made and, as this generation is the most in favour of tying their beliefs to their money, it’s worth seeing if we’ve got it right.
Green: the only colour that matters
Star fund managers like Neil Woodford have been known to make clear they are not paid to make moral judgements on behalf of their investors, only to aim to provide returns for them. This, along with investors refusing to give up gains to satisfy personal beliefs, forms the crux of most concerns surrounding the space. Worthy points but there are a few things to say here.
First, while personal investors often join the sector with morals in mind, ethical investing shouldn’t be confused with philanthropy. With such subjectivity in the term ‘ethical’ it is more useful to look at the commitment to sustainability and responsibility found in these funds, as well as strict controls around environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) standards.
The only way is ethics
The whole fund industry is being pushed to raise ESG standards because, regardless of societal well-being, we now know that those companies doing good, or at least not doing bad, are the most sustainable. There’s no moral judgement here, just a focus on long-term sustainable business models.
Ethical fund managers use screening processes to sort those companies deemed to be harmful to society from those benefiting it but lift up the bonnet and it can all look remarkably familiar - analyst teams poring over accounts and quizzing company management. Arguably investors get the same fundamental processes as with other funds, with a dollop of extra due diligence thrown in.
Money or morality
And second, do investors give up returns by investing in the sector?
No, says David Osfield, co-manager of the 
While many will point to the opportunity cost of missing out on big gains in the likes of tobacco and alcohol stocks over the years, ironically what investors think they would be giving up to use ethical strategies is often what the funds’ managers are trying to achieve - sustainability.
Fund bosses heavily invested in the likes of big tobacco like to talk about repeat and dependable customers, and a lot of the time those in the ethical space are looking for the same thing. However, to these managers the best way to make sure that’s a strong probability is to look at responsible companies in sectors that either don’t do damage to the world around us, or do a lot of good. For them, it’s more likely that they will survive and prosper than companies that risk running out of resources, face further regulation and possible fines, and are susceptible to public backlash.
The extra leg-work ethical teams conduct to clarify just how sustainable a business is, and how liable it would be to fines etc. if its operations went wrong, is designed to prevent shareholders being exposed to unnecessary risk. While each individual strategy will make judgement calls on which business sectors to include and exclude, many investors in the space seeking reliability of cashflow with a long-term view simply see a fund’s overall social aims as a happy bonus.
If sustainability and good corporate governance are top of your priority list, ethical funds might help, whatever ‘ethical’ means.
More on 
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. Overseas investments will be affected by movements in currency exchange rates. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
An ISA (Individual Savings Account) and a Junior ISA (JISA) are tax-efficient ways to save or invest your money. Understand how much you can invest in your ISAs this tax year.
The best way to think of an ISA is as a tax ‘wrapper’. Each year, you’re entitled to a specific allowance or limit, which is protected by the ISA wrapper. This means you won’t be charged tax on the interest or capital gains you earn, offering greater growth potential on your investments.
Fidelity offers both an Investment ISA (Stocks and Shares ISA) and a Junior ISA (Stocks and Shares Junior ISA).
The value of investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. If you invest in an ISA there is no capital gains tax on growth and no income tax on interest. The value of tax savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA depend on personal circumstances. All tax rules may change in the future. If you redeem ISA holdings, you cannot reuse that ISA allowance. Withdrawals from a Junior ISA will not be possible until the child reaches age 18.
Invest in a Stocks and Shares ISA online by 30 September 2019, for your chance to win. T&Cs apply.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
It’s important to remember that risk is about balancing the chances of a loss with the benefits of a higher return over time, while volatility – the inevitable ups and downs of the market – is an integral, often short-lived part of investing.
A higher level of investment risk—usually found in individual equities—often means that the potential for growth is greater, but there’s also a greater possibility that your investment might fall. Cash funds, on the other hand, carry lower risk but with that come lower potential returns.
When it comes to your own portfolio your tolerance for risk will help you decide which assets to invest in and how much to afford them. Once this is decided and your blend of assets is in line with your goals it’s all about letting time do the work so try not to focus on short-term market fluctuations but on the long-term potential of your investments.
The risk-return spectrum
This image shows a spectrum moving from the left where assets with lower risk bring lower growth potential towards the right, where assets carrying higher risk bring the potential of higher growth.
It can be worrying when stock markets go down. Our guides will help explain what to do - and what not to do - during times of uncertainty.
This guide explains why we take a long term view to investing.
This guide explains why timing the market can be a risky business.
Find out how a regular savings plan can help your money grow.
Learn more about each asset class, its possible risks and potential benefits.
Read more about making your money work harder for you.
Invest in a Stocks and Shares ISA online by 30 September 2019, for your chance to win. T&Cs apply.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
Our pricing has no hidden fees and charges, so you know exactly what you pay for and when you pay it.
Our statements are clear and easy to understand so you don’t have to waste time trying to figure it out. When you log in online, your transaction history will help you find and understand our service fee, and any charges, easily and transparently.
We believe in giving you great value, so we charge an annual service fee, payable monthly, based on the value of all your investments. And did we mention all the award-winning guidance, on-the-go access and support with investing you get? That’s all included.
You can read more about it in the service fee section, linked at the top of the page.
Read more about 
We’ve negotiated 
*If your SIPP has not yet been moved to our new system there is a broker trading charge of 0.10% per individual buy and sell. It's important to note that if you switch from one investment trust to another, you will pay the charge twice – once for selling, and again for buying the new one.
This applies to your SIPP if you opened it before 27 March 2019 and you have not received a letter from us saying that it’s been moved to our new system. Or, if you opened a SIPP after 27 March 2019 and you were over 54 years of age at that time.
Download the 

Here are the things that we include in our standard, simple and transparent service fee, but which our competitors sometimes charge for.
 
 
 
Find out how we can help you. Invest now for your chance to win £1,000 Amazon vouchers, T&Cs apply.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                24 May 2019
                            
The UK’s smaller companies are misunderstood. That’s the view of a raft of fund managers looking for opportunities at the low end of the corporate size scale, and it’s easy to see why. Most investors won’t recognise the majority of the names on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM), or FTSE Small Cap Index and regulatory pressures on analysis costs aren’t helping. Fund management groups tackling rising research fees will most likely mean even less research at the bottom end of the market and so, even less of a grip on company fundamentals.
Then there is the common misconception that UK smaller companies are just too exposed to the UK economy. Nearly half of all sales in the FTSE UK Small Cap Index come from overseas. While the 2016 referendum broke what had been a relatively similar growth path for the UK smaller companies index and its global peer, the MSCI World Small Cap index, UK companies continued to report positive earnings results especially in healthcare and technology, waking investors up to the fact that even the small caps are internationally diversified when it comes to income streams.
The result of all of this is a wealth of opportunity out there for fund managers willing to look where no-one else does, and capitalise on mispriced opportunities when they see them.
Here are three of the most popular UK smaller companies funds on fidelity.co.uk this month.
Merian UK Smaller Companies
While many active managers prioritise company research and sometimes deliberately filter out the macroeconomic ‘noise’, Merian’s Dan Nickols likes to draw from both approaches. He uses trends in gross domestic product (GDP), inflation, and interest rates and complements the ‘big picture’ with company research which emphasises both sustainability and the potential for change.
Nickols looks for firms which dominate their industries, a position which affords them greater profitability and faster earnings growth, and particularly likes finding good companies dismissed by the broader market. If, as Nickols predicts, the company posts good results, then its share price should appreciate as the pessimists re-evaluate their positions. 
Nickols believes that facetime with company executives is vital when investing in smaller companies and so, holds over 300 company meetings each year, along with his team of analysts. For the manager it’s just as important for a company to court Nickols as it is to show that he is serious about making an investment. It is also slightly easier to derive unique insights into a smaller company than a large one through meetings because fewer competing analysts are actively following the same firm. 
The fund’s top holdings include AIM darling 
Fidelity UK Smaller Companies
With research efforts concerning UK smaller companies often stretched, compelling stories, exciting products and headline services set for future growth can seem like easy wins for analyst teams.
This growth focus can lead to well-liked stocks being bid to high valuations – based more on hope and positive sentiment than a solid earnings base – leaving a large “reject bin” of under-researched companies. This is the starting point for co-portfolio managers Alex Wright and Jonathan Winton in running the Fidelity UK Smaller Companies Fund.
Among these unloved stocks, it is often possible to identify positive change that the market hasn’t yet recognised.
Thank you. We've emailed you to confirm your subscription.
Like Nichols, the managers look for companies with the ability to buck lukewarm expectations however the Fidelity team pays close attention to limiting the downside, should companies not fulfil their potential. They look specifically for undervalued companies attracting negative market sentiment, judging that a poor outlook is already baked into the share price, limiting downside risk, and presenting good opportunity to significantly beat expectations.
“Investing against the weight of opinion in the market requires differentiated and rigorous analysis in order to build conviction and back each position,” says Winton, “Fundamental company research is therefore the cornerstone of my strategy.”
The managers tend to think about individual investments in three stages; building a position, waiting for the thesis to play out and a re-rating to occur and finally recycling proceeds into new opportunities. On average it takes around 18 months for a company to move through this cycle, but this can vary significantly depending on the speed of a company’s recovery.
The fund currently holds Irish drinks business C&C as well as global hotelier 
Marlborough UK Micro-Cap Growth
Seasoned smaller companies specialist Giles Hargreave is joined by co-manager Guy Feld at the helm of the Marlborough fund focused on the particularly small end of the market. Examining firms with a market cap less than £250 million, and often less than £150 million, the pair aim to find the gems where even fellow small cap managers stop looking.
Companies at the low end of the cap scale often carry a higher risk of failure - something the managers keep in mind and attempt to mitigate by holding a diversified portfolio of more than 250 names.
Supported by a large team, the managers are also well-positioned to analyse each company in detail, rarely investing without meeting company management face to face. The pair specifically look for businesses operating in niche markets, with reliable management, solid balance sheets and evidence of good free cash flow.
The ability of the smallest UK companies to grow quicker than their large cap peers means relatively few investments need to exhibit outsize performance to benefit the overall portfolio. Hargreave and Feld can therefore run their winners and cut the losers - a job made easier by compiling such a large portfolio of opportunities.
Current holdings include Future, the Bath-based magazine publisher on the FTSE Fledgling index, as well as Audio equipment manufacturer 
More on:
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. Investors should note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon. Reference to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities and is included for the purposes of illustration only. These funds invest more heavily than others in smaller companies, which can carry a higher risk because their share prices may be more volatile than those of larger companies. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
Investment trusts have been around for a lot longer than other types of investment funds—almost 150 years—and are like them in many ways. Your money is pooled with contributions from many other people and used to buy a portfolio of investments.
They’re chosen and managed by an expert team, who are in charge of the day-to-day running of the trust, deciding when to buy and sell investments. If they make good decisions, your investment may rise in value although there is no guarantee and you may get back less than your original investment.
Additionally, you get access to a much wider and more diversified portfolio of investments more easily than you could hold on your own as your money is pooled with contributions from many investors and used to buy a portfolio of investments giving you a stake across hundreds of companies and therefore not reliant on the fortunes of just one or two businesses.
Investment trusts are Public Limited Companies (PLCs) that are listed on a stock exchange, so investors buy and sell from the market. They come with their own independent board of directors, and you become a shareholder when you invest in a trust.
As investment trust shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, their prices are affected by supply and demand. This means that share prices may be higher or lower than the Net Asset Value (NAV). The NAV is the value per share of all the assets owned by the investment trust.
An investment trust has a fixed number of shares (closed-ended) so managers can buy/sell when the time’s right, not because investors join or leave.
The price of an investment trust is determined by the market, not its NAV.
Investment trusts can borrow and use gearing to take advantage of opportunities. Interest must be paid whether the trust profits from the loan or not.
Investment trusts can retain up to 15% of their income in any year. This can provide extra income in the future and help make their payments consistent.
Every investment trust has an independent board of directors. They have a legal obligation to safeguard shareholders’ interests.
By buying shares in an investment trust, an investor becomes a company shareholder. They can then vote on issues such as the appointment of directors or changes to the investment policy.
Remember, the value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest.
Investing in investment trusts has a number of benefits.
There are, however, a few things to consider, as well.
Investment trusts give you the ability to invest in unlisted companies and private equity as well as assets that benefit from stable long-term investment, like infrastructure.
MultiManager investment trusts invest primarily in other investment funds and trusts rather than directly into individual stocks.
They provide an alternative to putting together your own portfolio of investment trusts, monitoring and making changes. They provide ready-made portfolios managed by expert fund managers.
It takes time, experience, knowledge and skill to work out which investment trust could be the right for you. Here’s what you need to consider, along with your personal circumstances (like the length of time you want to invest).


4 November 2015


4 November 2015


4 November 2015


11 January 2017


6 December 2016
Capture the powerful opportunities that stock markets can offer with our investment trusts, some of the most compelling investments across Asia, China, Europe, Japan, and the UK.
Explore our full range of investment trusts to search, filter and select your favourites from a broad selection of providers.
Remember, the value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
A closer look at some of the funds we offer.
Investors should note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon.
The value of investments can go down as well as up so you may get back less than you invest. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.


Mixed asset portfolios set up for the long term


Hitting ESG targets with a firm focus on profit


Getting the balance right


Interesting approaches to the land of the rising sun


Gold mining shares offer another way to diversify


Income from UK dividends maximised


Loving the unloved


Busting the small cap myths


Scottish Mortgage on the importance of unquoted investments


When it comes to long-term investing, few funds can match the credentials of the F&C Investment Trust.


ESG trailblazer well-placed as the rest catch up


Looking for steady growth around the world


Ketan Patel knows his fund was a pioneer


Steadily rising income that’s made in Britain


Long-term investing with long-term assets


Why the glass is half-full for UK dividends


Unloved, misunderstood or forgotten stocks


Shedding light on responsible investing


How to invest in uncertain times


Opportunity in connectivity


The future in focus.


Discerning approaches to technology


Simple but not easy


The Aussie rules to investing


Investors turn to sustainability


Fitzgerald on Brexit



    Show 
The objective of this section is to present users with objective news, information, data and guidance on personal finance topics drawn from a diverse collection of sources including affiliated and non-affiliated financial services publications. Content is not intended to provide tax, legal, insurance or investment advice and should not be construed as an offer to sell, a solicitation of an offer to buy, or a recommendation for any security or investment by any Fidelity entity or any third-party.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
Important information
A SIPP is a pension you manage yourself. You choose what it’s invested in, how much is paid into it and when. You can contribute in lump sums or with a regular savings plan.
Pay from as little as £40 a month. HMRC will add 25% to each payment*
Benefit from our 0.35% fee if you invest £7,500, or set up a regular savings plan
Our UK and Ireland based call centres are open six days a week.
Thousands of funds and shares to choose from to help you reach your retirement goals.
Including insights and planning tools to help you on your way.
When the time comes to begin taking your pension.
*To pay in a total of £1,000 to your SIPP, you would only need to contribute £800, and the government would pay the other £200. If you pay income tax at above the basic rate, you can claim even more tax relief through your tax return or by writing to HMRC.
Start a regular savings plan from £40, or make a lump sum payment of at least £800.
Enter details of your current provider, we'll do the rest and let you know when it's complete.
If your employer will be the primary payer to the SIPP, you can open an account with the 

If someone else (e.g. your partner) will be the primary payer, open your account with the 

 
Call our UK & Ireland-based team
To be able to open a SIPP you need to be:
If you wish to make contributions to the Fidelity SIPP you need to be:
If you are a US person you cannot open a SIPP with Fidelity.
Anyone can contribute to your SIPP as a single or regular contributor using our

An employer may also choose to 

You will not have to pay tax on money while it remains in your pension pot. You will normally only pay tax if you withdraw money from the pension pot. Up to 25% of your pension pot is usually tax-free and any further money that is taken will be taxed just like any other earnings.
However, there are two other occasions which may result in paying tax on the savings within your pension pot:
Find out about the 

For a Fidelity SIPP (and all our other products), if you've got less than £7,500 with us, we charge a flat-rate fee of £45 a year or 0.35% if you have a monthly regular savings plan of £50 or over. If the total value of your investments is between £7,500-£249,999.99, we charge a rate of 0.35% and 0.20% if it is over this. Fees are payable on investments up to £1million.
You may also need to pay investment charges set by the company managing your funds. To find out more details on investment charges, see our 



Yes, you can transfer your pension to us. When you move your pension (minimum of £1,000) to us, we’ll reimburse any exit fees that your former providers charge you, up to a maximum of £500 per customer. Of course, you need to decide whether these fees will impact the future value of your pension. You should also check your pension for valuable benefits that you may give up by moving your pension.
You can find out more about transferring your pension with our 

Self-employed workers have the same right to a pension as those who are employed by a third party.
The State Pension is an obvious example. The rules on eligibility are exactly the same, but where an employed person would have their National Insurance contribution deducted and paid to HMRC by their employer from their gross pay, a self-employed person needs to do it themselves through their tax return.
Similarly, a self-employed person will need to open and make contributions to a pension themselves as there's no employer to take care of this for them. This could be done in a personal pension, or in any savings account, for example a stocks and shares ISA (after all, a pension at its most basic level is any money you have saved for your retirement). Both options offer the same tax efficiencies that an employed person enjoys.
Fidelity offer both a Stocks & Shares ISA and a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), both of which allow you to invest in a wider range of investments from different providers, including funds from Jupiter, M&G, Fundsmith and Invesco, as well as Fidelity's own range of mutual funds, investment trusts and exchange-traded funds (ETFs).


Working for yourself brings freedom - but responsibility
Ed Monk
Fidelity Personal Investing
High-earners can fall foul of the rules
Ed Monk
Fidelity Personal Investing
Debt is now as much a part of student life as fresher’s week and essay dead...
Emma-Lou Montgomery
Fidelity Personal Investing
This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
You will need:
If you already have a Fidelity account, log in here to open your SIPP.
If you're new to Fidelity, you can open your account here.
Service fee per month
 
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
When you buy a share in a company, you’re effectively becoming a part owner of that company. As a shareholder, with an equity stake in that business, the investment return you earn depends on the success or failure of the company itself. Companies may pay dividends to shareholders or may prefer to reinvest profits for further growth.
Test your skills and be in with the chance to win one of our weekly £500 cash prizes. T&Cs apply.
It often takes careful research and consideration to confidently build your own share portfolio. Here are a few things to consider before investing in shares:
Tax treatment depends on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
The information and images used in the following guides are not advice or a personal recommendation for any particular investment. They are for illustrative purposes only. You must ensure that any share(s) you choose to invest in are suitable for your own personal circumstances. If you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser.
This guide walks you through how to buy shares, investment trusts and exchange-traded funds.
This guide walks you through how to sell shares, investment trusts and exchange-traded funds.
Need more information? 

Further indications on the health of the domestic economy
Tom Stevenson
Investment Director
Our investor briefing on the Chilean copper miner
Tom Stevenson
Investment Director
From pets to patterned cushions, the fate of the UK’s retailers is varied
Emma-Lou Montgomery
Fidelity Personal Investing
View detailed market data including current share prices, gainers and losers, performance charts and factsheets for companies in the FTSE All-Share.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
Making regular monthly contributions to your investments as part of a savings plan can help them grow into a sizeable sum over the long term, even if you’re only investing a small amount.
Investing smaller sums on a regular basis might also mean you can start investing sooner, giving you time to take advantage of the growth potential of compounding and the markets themselves.
Remember that the value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest.
A regular savings plan will allow your investments to benefit from:
You may be surprised at how much even small amounts can grow to over a number of years. The table below shows how an investment can grow over time, assuming growth of 4.5%, ongoing charges of 0.95% and a typical service fee of 0.35% a year*.
These figures are for illustration, the growth rate isn't guaranteed and you could get back less than you invest.
*Depends on the amount of money you have invested with us. More information on 

As a natural part of your investment journey, there will be periods when prices go down as well as up. Investing in the dips means buying into your long-term investment at a lower price and bringing down the average price you have paid across the life of the investment – think of it like shopping for a product you know you like in the sales. In financial terms this is known as pound-cost averaging.
The difficult part is deciding when to invest and this relies on timing the low points – something even the pros treat with caution. So investing regular amounts every month helps take the guess work out of it, by helping you catch the high points as well as the low, smoothing your returns over the long term.
A regular savings plan is effectively a direct debit payment plan which will be collected at a time and frequency of your choosing. You can choose to put this money into cash or into investments which you have selected. You can edit your regular savings plan at any time (although any changes may take a few days to show online).
You need to open an account with us first and can choose to set up a regular savings plan in our Stocks and Shares ISA, SIPP or Investment Account. If you already have an account with us, you can set up your regular savings plan online in minutes.
 
You can start a regular savings plan from as little as £50
You have the option to set the payment frequency for your regular savings plan to collect monthly, quarterly, every 6 months or annually. The payments can be taken on 1st, 10th, 17th or 25th of the month that’s matched the payment frequency you have chosen.  
If you already have an account with us you can set up your regular savings plan online.
If you don’t have an account with us already, you can get started in just a few clicks.
Read more about balancing the chances of a loss with the benefits of a higher return over time.
Learn more about each asset class, its possible risks and potential benefits.
Read more about making your money work harder for you.
Find out how we can help you. Invest now for your chance to win £1,000 Amazon vouchers, T&Cs apply.
The value of investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                31 July 2019
                            
Gold has long been a safe haven for investors who want some element of core stability in their investment portfolios. But you do not have to invest in gold bars to do it. There are various ways to invest in gold, by holding the physical metal, through 
George Cheveley, manager of the 
Here he explains how gold mining companies can at the same time both benefit from the underlying gold price when it rises and yet come into their own too when it goes south. And how investing in a fund like Investec Global Gold can add a level of “comfort” to your investment portfolio.
More on 
Important information 
UK car industry experiences worst decline since the financial crisis
Jonathan Wright
Fidelity Personal Investing
What are the yields on bonds and shares telling us?
Tom Stevenson
Investment Director
High street stores need to think differently
Daniel Lane
Fidelity Personal Investing
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
A fund that brings our experts’ favourite funds together in one investment.
If you’re looking for fund ideas, our Select 50 is a great place to start, as it contains funds that have been recommended by our experts after extensive research. But what if you want to tap into their ideas, without having to choose lots of funds yourself? That’s where our Fidelity Select 50 Balanced Fund comes in.
The Fidelity Select 50 Balanced Fund is a quick and easy way to access the expertise of our team, as it’s a single fund that contains a selection of funds predominantly from the Select 50.
The fund aims for long-term capital growth from a globally-diversified ‘medium-risk’ portfolio that balances assets with varying degrees of growth potential and risk.
It generally holds around 30 funds from a range of different companies (not just Fidelity’s own funds). At least 80% of the portfolio (by value) comes from the Select 50.
The fund is managed by Ayesha Akbar, a highly experienced member of the Fidelity Multi Asset team who has been managing multi-manager funds for many years.
The fund is a portfolio of other funds that invest predominantly in the Select 50. Ayesha actively manages the fund to achieve the fund's aims; it doesn't just mirror the performance of the Select 50.
The ongoing charge is 1.24%. This pays for Ayesha's expertise, plus the charges on the funds she chooses (apart from Fidelity funds, where we rebate the cost). You also pay our service fee.
The Fidelity Select 50 Balanced Fund is exclusive to Fidelity Personal Investing customers; you can't buy it through anyone else. You can invest from £1,000 as a lump sum or set up a regular savings plan from £50.
Please remember this is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser. The value of investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest.
Our Investment Director, Tom Stevenson explains why we launched a fund like this, who might be interested in it, the fund's objectives, and how the fund is managed.
"The Fidelity Select 50 Balanced Fund is a quick and easy way to access the investment expertise that underpins Fidelity’s popular Select 50 list of preferred funds. Speaking to our customers since the launch of the Select 50, it has become clear to us that we can go even further to help investors achieve better financial outcomes."
Ayesha has the freedom to invest outside the Select 50, because this gives her more flexibility to achieve her goals.
She also has a great deal of flexibility in how she manages the fund, as she can move money between a range of asset classes, such as shares, bonds, property, commodities and cash.
There are just a few fixed limits for the three core elements in the fund. These are 30% to 70% for shares, 20% to 60% for bonds and 0% to 20% for cash.
Invest in a Stocks and Shares ISA online by 30 September 2019, for your chance to win. T&Cs apply.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
Access a wide range of investment opportunities beyond your tax-efficient allowances.
Important information
Unlike an ISA or pension, investments in this account are not held within a tax wrapper. Depending on your personal circumstances you may need to pay tax on your returns if they exceed your personal allowances.
Whether you’re saving for a special day, investing in your child’s future or building up a nest egg, we’ll help you to open your Investment Account, with as little or as much guidance as you need.
You can start investing once your account is open, but if you like you can 

Having investments spread across multiple companies can be both time-consuming and costly. Bringing them together means less stress and less paperwork.
Our straightforward transfer process makes it easy to bring your investments together - just tell us where they’re currently held and we’ll take care of the rest.
It’s free to transfer and we’ll even cover any exit fees you may incur, up to a total of £500 per person. 

Find out more about 

With more than 50 years’ experience we’ve already earned the trust of over one million UK investors.
Start investing in just a few steps, with 24/7 online access from your computer, tablet or phone.
Enjoy low costs, no initial charges and no additional fees to switch or exit.
Find out how we can help you. Invest now for your chance to win £1,000 Amazon vouchers, T&Cs apply.
UK car industry experiences worst decline since the financial crisis
Jonathan Wright
Fidelity Personal Investing
What are the yields on bonds and shares telling us?
Tom Stevenson
Investment Director
High street stores need to think differently
Daniel Lane
Fidelity Personal Investing
This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Make sure you have the following information with you:
If you’re an existing online customer, please log in to start your transfer
If you’re new to Fidelity, you'll need to open an account before you can start your transfer
Make sure you have the following information with you:
In order to request exit fees re-imbursement you will be required to complete an exit fees re-imbursement form which you can download by 
Terms and conditions for re-imbursement of exit fees
This offer does not apply to any investments linked to an Adviser / Intermediary or third party.
Fidelity will reimburse the exit/redemption fees charged to a customer by their former provider/s when they move their investments (minimum of £1,000) to Fidelity Personal Investing, up to a maximum amount of £500 per customer.
An exit fee is an administration charge which is imposed by the former provider and arises directly as a result of processing the transfer or re-registration of the customer’s investments to Fidelity. Fidelity will not reimburse the customer for any loss of investment returns, loss of interest, dealing charges, penalties for transferring investments before their maturity dates or any other charges associated with your transfer or re-registration.
Where a re-registration or transfer is not possible and the customer chooses to sell their investments held through another provider and subsequently make new investment/s (minimum £10,000) through Fidelity Personal Investing, Fidelity will cover any account closure fees charged by the customer’s former provider (excluding any dealing charges) of up to £500 per customer. Fidelity will not cover any bid-offer spreads or any capital gains tax liability arising as a result of these transactions.
Exit and account closure fees reimbursement must be claimed within a 6 month period from date of transfer of the customer’s investments to Fidelity. Exit fees will be reimbursed for transfers and re-registrations and account closure fees will be reimbursed provided the conditions above are met. Products included: ISAs, Investment Accounts, EBS SIPP, Fidelity Personal Pension, Fidelity SIPP, Unit Trusts, OEICs, SICAVs, Exchange Traded Funds, Investment Trusts and Shares. 
To qualify for the reimbursement, the fees from the customer’s former provider must have been triggered as a direct result of the transfer or re-registration to Fidelity Personal Investing, or the closure of an account where the customer has subsequently (within 6 months) invested at least £10,000 through Fidelity Personal Investing. If the customer is transferring investments to more than one provider from their former provider at the same time, Fidelity will only reimburse the fees which are incurred as a result of direct transfer or re-registration to Fidelity. Other fees or charges unconnected with the transfer will not be reimbursed.
The completed Exit Fee Reimbursement Form and documentary evidence of the charge will need to be provided in order for the exit fees to be reimbursed to the customer. To claim the reimbursement of any account closure fees, documentary evidence of the closure fee levied will need to be provided to Fidelity, along with confirmation that a minimum of £10,000 has been invested with Fidelity within 6 months of incurring such closure fee.
The documentary evidence referred to above, must be either a copy of the charge confirmation letter from the former provider or a statement showing the charge being deducted.
Payment will be made to the customer by BACS when a bank mandate is held on the account. Alternatively, payment will be made by cheque.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                15 October 2018
                            
Simple, good and very different. That's how James Clunie describes the approach to investing he employs in running the 
However, it's not all one-way traffic in the manager's use of equities in the fund, as he explains: "We're different from other funds in that I'm actually net short of equities, so this fund would enjoy it if markets went down - that’s really unusual. It would also enjoy it if a number of other things went wrong in the world."
The end result of the strategy is that the fund often moves in the opposite direction to a lot of other assets - an aspect the manager believes offers investors a useful tool to balance other investments in their portfolios. But for Clunie, the diversification on offer plays second fiddle to the niche speciality the fund displays in seeking positive returns.
He explains: "I think we're good at single stock short selling - identifying stocks that are likely to fall and benefiting from that on behalf of our clients. That edge, or skill, is developed through understanding data around negative news, practices and important behaviours in short sellers that we spend years training to identify. So, simple, potentially good through our shorting and very different through our risk profile - that’s how we differentiate ourselves."
Short-selling can often generate thoughts of betting against a company an investor believes will do badly but Clunie says it's even simpler than that: "A short sale is simply an expression of a negative opinion on a share, no more than that. It could be that you're targeting bad firms where you think they are doomed to failure over time, or it could be that actually it’s a good firm that has a temporary problem. Maybe the shares are overpriced and expectations for profits or earnings are declining, or there is too much debt temporarily and they will need to issue some new shares."
So is it just the same as most investing, where investors look for share price rises, but with the opposite goal in mind?
Not quite, says Clunie, and this is where investors must tread carefully. He explains, "There are a few wrinkles, the first being risk - there’s no limit to how high a share price can rise so there’s no theoretical limit to how much money you can lose. That's very scary, so a lot of what we do is extra risk management. The other thing is cost - you have to borrow the shares to settle the trade and that’s done for a fee. So the cost and the risk make it a little bit more difficult than just the mirror image of buying shares and wanting them to rise."
Away from short-selling, Clunie also uses a more traditional approach within the fund, buying company shares with a view to selling when their prices head towards the top right of the page.  Here, he has strict criteria he needs to see in a company before he adds it to the fund.
Clunie explains: "We look for companies with strong accounting measures, then we look at valuation and finally we look at who owns the shares and what they might do next. If a company is aligned on all three; strong quantitative measures, good valuation and strong shareholder register, we like it. When I look at our portfolio it’s full of stocks that tend to have these characteristics."
More on the 
Glossary:
Long:
Short:
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. Investors should note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon. Select 50 is not a personal recommendation to buy or sell a fund. The fund may make increased and more complicated use of derivatives and this may result in leverage. In such situations performance may rise or fall more than it would have done otherwise. The fund may be exposed to the risk of financial loss if a counterparty used for derivative instruments subsequently defaults. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
If you’re looking to get started, then you can browse through our investing videos, review more principles for good investing, explore investment types or take a deeper look into some of our guides that explain what investing is all about.
Important information




Explore our selection of videos, specially created to help you make the most of your investments—from choosing the right account, to finding out more about how your investments may be taxed.
Read more about balancing the chances of a loss with the benefits of a higher return over time.
Learn more about each asset class, its possible risks and potential benefits.
Find out how a regular savings plan can help your money grow.
Ever wondered how some investment types (like exchange-traded funds) actually work?
A fund is a unit trust, OEIC (open-ended investment company) or any other collective investment scheme.
Exchange-traded funds are funds that issue shares, which are traded on a stock exchange.
Investment trusts are Public Limited Companies (PLCs) that are listed on a stock exchange, so investors buy and sell from the market.
Buy shares in a company to own a small stake in it, with the potential for capital growth, dividend income or a blend of the two.
Explore our selection of product guides and videos, specially created to help you make the most of your investments—from choosing the right account, to finding out more about how your investments may be taxed.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
Get your money working harder. Plus get £50 to £1,000 cashback. Exclusions, T&Cs apply.
Important information
Tell us your risk preference and we’ll give you a couple of fund options to consider.
Browse a list of our experts’ favourite funds.
Use our powerful tool to search and filter the thousands of investments on offer.
These guidance tools are not a personal recommendation in respect of a particular investment. If you need additional help, please speak to a financial adviser. You should regularly reassess the suitability of your investments to ensure they continue to meet your attitude to risk and investment goals.
Invest now for your chance to win £1,000 Amazon vouchers, T&Cs apply.
With over 50 years’ investing experience we’re trusted to manage the assets of more than 2.4 million customers*. But don’t just take our word for it, see why our valued customers rate us ‘Great’ on Trustpilot.
Invest in a few steps with 24/7 online access from your computer, tablet or phone.
Enjoy low costs, no initial charges and no additional fees to switch or exit.
Invest in a range of mutual funds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), investment trusts and individual stocks and shares. Save money with our discounts on hundreds of funds.
We think you’ve paid enough.
Test your skills and be in with the chance to win one of our weekly £500 cash prizes. T&Cs apply
UK car industry experiences worst decline since the financial crisis
Jonathan Wright
Fidelity Personal Investing
What are the yields on bonds and shares telling us?
Tom Stevenson
Investment Director
High street stores need to think differently
Daniel Lane
Fidelity Personal Investing
This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
*Across Asia Pacific, Europe, the Middle East and South America. Source: Fidelity International, 31 March 2019.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
The performance of different asset classes will naturally vary over time and, as each asset has its own unique characteristics, wider market conditions and world events will affect them differently.
Holding a diverse range of assets in line with your goals and risk tolerance will help minimise the impact of a single asset class on your portfolio and will help take advantage of opportunities across the market.
Investing in assets with a higher potential for growth but greater risk may be a good idea, thanks to the potential of long-term growth and compounding.
As you get closer to your investment goals, it’s often a good idea to reduce the risk in your portfolio to mitigate against sudden market movements when you need your money the most.
Also known as stocks and shares, when you invest in equities you buy a small stake in a company with the aim of capital growth, dividend income, or a blend of the two. When you buy a share in a company, you’re actually buying a piece of that company. The investment return you earn depends on the success or failure of the company itself. Equity funds have the ability to invest in a range of companies, based on a particular fund manager’s expert insight and experience, spreading the risk across a number of holdings and accessing multiple opportunities on your behalf.
As an asset class, equities carry the greatest risk in the pursuit of reward. They can prove volatile in the short term.
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest.
Bonds are corporate and government loans with you playing the part of the lender, in exchange for interest payments over a set period. Through issuing a bond, a company or government can borrow money in exchange for paying a fixed interest over a set time period, along with paying the initial amount back at the end. When you invest in bonds you are the lender and benefit from regular payments over the life of the bond. You can also choose to invest in a bond or income fund or select a multi-asset income fund. These funds invest in various asset classes to generate an attractive income, diversified across a number of securities. The multi-asset approach also benefits from diversification among asset classes, with the intention of reducing the overall risk of the portfolio.
The value of investments and the income from them can do down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. For funds that invest in bonds, please be aware that the price of bonds is influenced by movements in interest rates, changes in the credit rating of bond issuers, and other factors such as inflation and market dynamics. In general, as interest rates rise the price of a bond will fall. The risk of default is based on the issuer's ability to make interest payments and to repay the loan at maturity. Default risk may therefore vary between different government issuers as well as between different corporate issuers.
A commodity is a basic good like steel or oil that is most often used in the production of other goods or services. You can invest in commodity funds, which will often include mining and production companies, or track the performance of a specific commodity in the world market through a specialised ETF. Their value fluctuates according to current market supply and demand, as well as views on their future prospects. You can invest in a range of commodity funds which focus mainly on those companies involved in energy, metals & mining and paper & forestry products.
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest.
Property funds often invest in commercial property rather than the residential market but you should still consider your house and any buy-to-let properties you own as part of your investment portfolio. Property funds benefit from the ability to invest in large commercial projects like shopping centres and retail parks. Fund managers can commit more capital to these properties and deal with fewer landlords than investing in residential schemes, as a result. Property funds also allow investors to invest smaller amounts than would be necessary to buy a physical asset.
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest.
Carrying the lowest investment risk of the five assets, cash can be a useful asset to hold within a portfolio for a number of reasons. First, its inherently low investment risk provides good diversification to riskier assets. Second, holding cash allows you to take advantage of market dips, investing at the low point. Third, easily accessible savings held in cash can cover sudden unforeseen circumstances, without having to sell better performing assets.
Read more about balancing the chances of a loss with the benefits of a higher return over time.
Find out how a regular savings plan can help your money grow.
Read more about making your money work harder for you.
The value of investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
Use this page to select which account type you’d like to open with us.
Important information
Invest your ISA allowance as either a lump sum or a series of regular monthly payments.
A SIPP allows you to take control of your retirement savings, while benefiting from additional government tax relief.
Access a wide range of investment opportunities beyond your tax-efficient allowances.
Open a Junior ISA for your children.
Open a Junior SIPP for your children
The value of investments can go down as well as up so you may get back less than you invest. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser. The value of tax savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA or a SIPP depend on personal circumstances. All tax rules may change in future.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                2 August 2019
                            
Japan can be a tough nut to crack for the average UK investor. The world’s third largest economy is home to some of the world’s biggest global brands but distinctly different corporate attitudes, demographics, culture and language often make it a market best left to the pros.
The Fidelity 
Lindsell Train Japanese Equity
Investors might recognise the Lindsell Train moniker from the firm’s popular UK and global equity funds. So it will come as no surprise that the approach employed by Michael Lindsell in the Japanese equivalent parallels the rest of the franchise. Focusing on finding exceptional companies with proven histories and dependable income streams, Lindsell consciously avoids economically sensitive, cyclical and low margin firms.
Over 40% of the fund is allocated to consumer franchises, with media (27%) and pharmaceuticals (20%) the next most popular sectors. This follows the manager’s strategy of identifying products with consistent consumer audiences, often with global interest, as well as attracting attention in Japan. The company’s holding in Nintendo typifies the manager’s thinking.
The gaming company‘s intellectual property in titles like Mario, Zelda and Pokémon is highly valued by Lindsell. In particular, the manager points to the opportunity open to Nintendo in the proliferation of both gaming content and further production of consoles, most notably the Switch. 
Consumer healthcare is a big theme in the fund as well, with hair and skin care manufacturer Mandom in the top holdings alongside professional haircare brand Milbon.
Baillie Gifford Japanese
“We’re very excited about the scope for robotics,” says Matthew Brett, manager of the Baillie Gifford Japanese Fund.
He explains: “It feels a bit like the internet did 15 years ago, where it’s relatively easy to see that robotics could be more significant than it is today. But we’re still at the early stages, moving away from robots being used to make cars in developed countries into the whole matrix of opportunity in new industries and moving outside of the developed countries.”
Brett is confident that his focus on long-term structural changes driven by technology shifts holds more sway than near-term political decisions. For that reason, the fund is particularly heavy in companies ready to drive technological change, rather than support existing production and manufacturing methods.
The manager has roughly a quarter of the portfolio allocated to internet-related businesses and another 15% of the portfolio in factory automation and robotics-related businesses. Examples here include Rakuten, one of the largest ecommerce platforms in the world, and Kubota, developers of autonomous farm machinery, including self-driving tractors, rice transplanters and exoskeletons for manual workers.
Rather than broadly allocating to tech-focused companies, the manager believes opportunity lies in identifying already successful companies who are adapting and integrating new tech into their businesses with a view to maintaining or developing their market leadership.
Man GLG Japan CoreAlpha
A markedly different style to that of Lindsell and Brett, the Man GLG Japan CoreAlpha Fund focuses on investing in large-cap value opportunities with a heavy contrarian slant. Manager Stephen Harker believes cyclicality is a strong force at play within the Japanese market and so, looks to exploit low prices in unloved companies, selling after a significant positive uplift in price.
A lot of these companies operate globally and so, aren’t limited specifically to Japan’s demographics, most notably its ageing population. Examples in the fund include Toyota, Honda and Nomura, with global networks, supply chains and end customers.
The manager aims to keep investors’ money 100% invested at all times, meaning companies going through a price rerating need to be sold in order to begin a position in a new overlooked opportunity.
Harker is currently taking advantage of lowly rated financial services businesses, which make up 34% of the fund, with consumer cyclical businesses the next most popular, occupying 21%.
More on 
More on 
More on 
Important information
UK car industry experiences worst decline since the financial crisis
Jonathan Wright
Fidelity Personal Investing
What are the yields on bonds and shares telling us?
Tom Stevenson
Investment Director
High street stores need to think differently
Daniel Lane
Fidelity Personal Investing
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
ETFs are funds that issue shares, which are traded on a stock exchange. ETFs cover a broad range of asset classes and can give exposure to specific markets, sectors or investment strategies. Many ETFs track an index in order to provide this return.
ETFs can provide exposure to a variety of asset classes such as equities or fixed income by:
Like any stock on an exchange, ETFs can be traded at any time when the exchange it's listed on is open.
Passively tracking an index is less expensive than active fund management.
ETFs give you instant access to international markets as well as commodities such as gold, silver and precious metals.
Passive ETFs track a benchmark index such as the FTSE 100 or S&P 500. The performance of the shares and the market capitalisation of the companies within a particular index will be replicated closely by the ETF without the involvement of an active fund manager, keeping costs low.
Smart beta ETFs usually track an index that has been weighted to deliver a specific outcome, such as income or low volatility. Like other ETFs, they are traded like shares on the stock exchange and have the same unique benefits and risks. Because the indices that the smart beta funds track are more complex than for traditional ETFs, the cost tends to be a bit higher than for traditional ETFs.
Different types of smart beta
Minimum volatility smart beta
Income smart beta
With ETFs in general you know exactly what you're investing in. Many ETFs provide daily visibility as to what securities the fund holds, how the ETF is performing and Total Expense Ratio (TER) costs. When investing in an ETF you know exactly what price you’re paying for units, unlike mutual funds.
ETFs give you access to a whole world of investment options, covering a broad range of asset classes, sectors and geographies. This can help you to spread risks by avoiding putting all your eggs in one basket.
ETFs often have lower costs than other types of investment funds.
ETFs are traded on stock exchanges, so you can easily buy and sell at any time during the day (provided the market is open).
There are, however, a number of things to consider.
As ETFs invest in a wide range of asset classes, their value can go up as well as down and you may get back less than you invest.
Even after charges are taken into account, most ETFs will not follow an index perfectly. The gap between performance and the returns from an index is called ‘tracking difference’.
Explore our full range of ETFs to search, filter and select your favourite, including the iShares Core Series by BlackRock and our smart beta ETFs.
Fidelity has a suite of Quality Income ETFs, across 4 different geographical exposures. These funds screen companies for dividend yield and quality criteria, with the intention of offering investors an attractive income-based total return. Stocks of companies that generate superior profits, strong balance sheets, and stable cash flows would generally be considered high-quality.
There are also 

 
Remember, the value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investing in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
When investing internationally an investor is effectively making two investments - one in the foreign equity itself and the other in the exchange rate value of that investment. Unhedged international investments tend to be more volatile as they are exposed to the risk and return of both equities and foreign exchange. Currency hedging strategies aim to mitigate this risk. They allow separation of equity market risk from currency risk and therefore allow more accurate implementation of investment views.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
Deciding to invest can be exciting, but with so many things to consider it’s hard to know where to begin. That's where Easy Invest comes in - helping you with an investment suggestion if you're not sure how to get started.
From as little as £50 a month
The Fidelity Index World Fund, invested in a variety of well-known companies
Sign up for guidance and support emails for the first year
Important: 
We're suggesting this fund to give you access to some of the world’s biggest companies and their collective share price performance.
To do this, the fund aims to closely follow the MSCI World Index, which keeps track of these companies, and spreads your money across them. This keeps costs low and makes sure your investment is well-diversified.
The top (blue) line shows the growth of this fund with a starting investment of £1,000 and then £50 saved a month over the last 5 years. The green (bottom) line shows the contributions over this time.
Five year performance


You can benefit from our low 0.35% service fee if you invest more than £7,500, or if you set up a regular savings plan. If you were to invest £1,000 over one year, using a regular savings plan, your charges would break down like this:
Fund charge (0.1%)
This covers the cost of running the fund which includes our discount
Service fee (0.35%)
The fee you pay for holding an account with Fidelity
Annual total
Based on investing £1,000 over a year using a regular savings plan
This is a simplified example and the actual fee you pay will vary depending on how your investments perform. If you hold less than £7,500 with Fidelity and do not have a regular savings plan, our service fee is £45 for the year.

Sign-up now for monthly emails with tips and guidance designed to help build your knowledge and confidence in investing, including a special edition of our MoneyTalk podcast.
Thank you. We've emailed you to confirm your subscription. 
First we'll guide you through opening an ISA, then we'll take you to invest in the fund.
A Stocks and Shares ISA (or investment ISA) is an account that allows you to invest in a wide range of investments such as individual shares, exchange-traded funds, bonds and investment trusts.
You can invest up to the current ISA annual allowance with the benefit of not needing to pay tax on your investment gains.


The 2019/20 ISA allowance is £20,000. Some or all of this can be invested in a Stocks and Shares ISA.


You can start a regular savings plan from as little as £50 a month, or make a lump sum payment from £1,000.
Unlike regular savings accounts, an ISA is a type of tax wrapper that saves you from needing to pay tax on your investment returns.
You can hold as many Stocks and Shares ISAs as you like across different providers. However, you can only contribute the current tax year allowance into one Stocks and Shares ISA with one provider.
Make sure you have the following information with you:
If you’re an existing online customer, please log in to start your transfer
If you’re new to Fidelity, you'll need to open an account before you can start your transfer
1. The promoter of this offer is Financial Administration Services Limited, 130 Tonbridge Road, Hildenborough, Tonbridge, Kent TN11 9DZ (“Fidelity”).
2. To be eligible to enter the prize draw you must be 18 years of age or older and a UK resident. Fidelity employees and its contracted staff are not eligible to enter.
3. Entry into the Prize Draw will constitute your acceptance of these terms and conditions. Entry will be automatic when you make a Qualifying Investment (see below).
4. If you do not wish to be entered into the prize draw, please call our contact centre on 0800 41 41 61 and request to be removed from the draw, after you have made a Qualifying Investment. The contact centre is available between 8am and 6pm, Monday to Friday, and 9am and 6pm on Saturday.
5. The prize draw period is from 18 January 2019 to 31 March 2019 the “Prize Draw Period”). 
6. 
The following examples, without limitation, 
7. After the Prize Draw Period, the winners will be selected at random. All winners will be drawn after 1 April 2019 and will be notified via email or phone before 30 April 2019. Payment of the prize money will be made within 90 days of the notification. There will be four winners in total.
8. Only one entry per person is available. If multiple ISA investments are made during the Prize Draw Period, the first investment in time will qualify for entry to the Prize Draw, and the amount invested at that point will be the prize amount payable.
9. The winner's prize money will be paid by BACS to your bank account. If we do not hold a bank mandate on the account, you will need to provide those details to receive the prize. Cheques will not be sent in place of providing bank details.
10. Fidelity reserves the right to cancel or amend the prize draw or the rules without notice during the Prize Draw Period. Any cancellation of or changes to the prize draw will be notified to you on the Fidelity website.
11. If you withdraw your qualifying investment from your Fidelity ISA, or add an adviser to your account, within a 12-month period from the date of investment, Fidelity reserves the right to reclaim the prize money awarded.
Any personal information you submit to Fidelity will be maintained in accordance with the UK Data Protection Act 2018 and used in accordance with the Fidelity Privacy Policy. Your personal data will never be disclosed to a third party without your prior consent, however, should you be a winner, your full name and county will be disclosed to anyone who requests this information. Your contact details will only be used to contact you and notify you if you have won a prize.
1. Fidelity shall not be liable for any loss or damage suffered from entry into the prize draw, acceptance of the prize, any defects, delays or inadequacies in the prize or the arrangements surrounding the prize, or from any event beyond the reasonable control of Fidelity. Fidelity shall not be liable in contract, tort, negligence or otherwise for any direct or indirect consequential loss suffered by an entrant in relation to participation in the prize draw. Nothing in these terms and conditions shall operate to exclude or restrict liability of Fidelity from time to time for death or personal injury resulting from negligence.
2. Where relevant, reference in these terms and conditions to the winner includes any person with whom the winner shares the prize.
3. In the event of any dispute regarding the rules, conduct, results and all other matters relating to a prize draw, the decision of Fidelity shall be final and no correspondence or discussion shall be entered into.
This table shows the service fee payments you would make over a year if saving £1,000 using a regular savings plan.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                6 August 2019
                            
The 
Ayesha Akbar, its manager, blends together funds from the 
I spoke to Ayesha recently and asked her how she runs the fund, how it’s currently positioned and what events she will be keeping an eye on in the coming months.
Thank you. We've emailed you to confirm your subscription.
More on Fidelity 
Important information
UK car industry experiences worst decline since the financial crisis
Jonathan Wright
Fidelity Personal Investing
What are the yields on bonds and shares telling us?
Tom Stevenson
Investment Director
High street stores need to think differently
Daniel Lane
Fidelity Personal Investing
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                27 February 2019
                            
Visiting the south coast last weekend it was remarkable to see, in February, the streets full of people in t-shirts and sunglasses.
The warm weather made for a pleasant day trip but also created a nagging sense that this wasn’t quite right, and perhaps even a bit worrying. I don’t know if this February’s summer-like days are themselves a sign of climate change, but I couldn’t help but wonder.
What’s in less doubt is the evidence that climate change in general is real, and that it’s man-made. Nasa - the National Aeronautics and Space Administration - states, simply, that: “Climate-warming trends over the past century are extremely likely due to human activities. In addition, most of the leading scientific organisations worldwide have issued public statements endorsing this position.”
As the evidence builds, so does demand for action on climate change. That includes among investors, who are increasingly insisting that their invested money not be used to support enterprises that harm the environment.
Environmental concerns are just one arm of ESG investing - which stands for Environmental, Social and Governance. SRI is another acronym you will hear - that’s Socially Responsible Investing.
Dozens of funds now exist promising to invest with these aims in mind. Their approaches can differ markedly - some will apply broad screens to filter out companies that operate in certain sectors, or profit from doing certain activities. Others will be far more discerning, investing only in enterprises they believe do good in the world.
For investors, it has created a difficult field to navigate. Any fund can market itself as ‘ethical’ but there is no common definition of what the terms means. Conversely, I know of funds that don’t market themselves with an ethical badge but which apply similar rules nonetheless.
ESG funds can sit in the Investment Association’s ’Specialist’ sector, or they can fit into the usual regional ones. For these reasons, the Investment Association has been looking at grouping them together in a new sector, and at drawing up a standard definition of what funds must do to fit into it. 
Those plans have their critics, who say the subjective nature of what is ethical makes it an impossible task. Last week I interviewed Ketan Patel, manager of the 
There may be obvious sectors, such as oil and gas, which are ruled out on environmental grounds (although they still make into some ESG-branded funds). But what about companies that use similar resources, like smartphone manufacturers that need rare earth minerals for their devices that are extracted from the ground with unregulated labour?
What about the giant tech companies which rely on selling personal data, with all the nefarious potential outcomes that come with that? What about companies that promote gambling, or vices like pornography? What about nuclear energy, which may be necessary if we are to reduce our reliance on fossil fuels? What about fashion chains that promote a throwaway culture for clothes?
Thank you. We've emailed you to confirm your subscription.
All these concerns are highly subjective, and a common definition may struggle to encompass them and remain meaningful. This subjectivity is also why some have doubted ethical investing as a concept, accusing it of making some people feel good while, in reality, not ruling out many very harmful activities.
For what it’s worth, I think such objections are wrong-headed. As a friend explained on the south coast at the weekend when we discussed this - sure, she may not be able to say that her money is never used for damaging activities, but she can at least say it doesn’t support companies that make bombs. And that’s not nothing.
In that sense we should look at investing ethically in the same way as we look at living our daily lives ethically. You may recycle and buy free range and organic and never use a plastic bag if you can avoid it, but there will still be choices you make which, unfortunately, harm the environment.  The person who never drives or flies or buys something that’s been shipped from overseas is very rare, but should we stop the positive things we can do? Of course not.
It is up to investors to find for themselves what an ethical fund invests in and what it does not. It’s quite unlikely that you will find a fund that never, ever contradicts your own personal red lines, but some will get closer than others.
You can use Fidelity’s 
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. EdenTree’s focus on securities of companies which maintain strong environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) credentials may result in a return that at times compares unfavourably to similar products without such focus.  No representation nor warranty is made with respect to the fairness, accuracy or completeness of such credentials.  The status of a security’s ESG credentials can change over time. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
Our experts research thousands of funds a year. For our Select 50, they chose their favourites or, to use the industry jargon, their ‘highest conviction’ picks.
These were predominantly actively managed funds, however in some specific cases passively-managed funds (otherwise known as tracker funds) were also included, to offer the widest choice to our customers. We then grouped the funds into eight straightforward categories, so it’s easy to find what you’re looking for.
What’s more, we spoke with the managers to negotiate extra discounts for our customers, and have secured them on many of these funds. Combined with our low-cost service fee, our Select 50 offers you truly great value.
Important information
We want to help you achieve your investment aims, so we negotiate with all the managers in our range to see if we can get even better value for your portfolio. Those funds with the discount sign, have a special discount that means you pay less for it. Your savings can come from lower charges or a rebate that is paid back into your holdings. Any rebates you receive are potentially liable to income tax at your marginal tax rate.
Changes to the Select 50 can occur for a variety of reasons. Our expert fund selectors may have changed their view of a fund. Alternatively, its benefits to customers (discounts etc) may have become more or less attractive relative to the other funds in its category. You should not necessarily view removal from the Select 50 as a reason to sell.
The Select 50 is updated twice a year in January and July, though funds may be removed at any point during the year.
Following the July 2019 review, the following funds were added to the Select 50:
The following funds were removed from the Select 50 following the July 2019 review but remain highly rated by our investment specialists. They have been replaced on the list by funds that scored more highly in our customer benefit analysis: 
The following funds were removed from the Select 50 after a change in rating by our investment specialists:
 
Tom Stevenson and Claire Dwyer explain how the Select 50 is created and why it could help you choose funds.
A fund that brings our experts' favourite funds together in one investment.
Find out how we can help you. Invest now for your chance to win £1,000 Amazon vouchers, T&Cs apply.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 


Update your browser
A closer look at some of the funds we offer.
Investors should note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon.
The value of investments can go down as well as up so you may get back less than you invest. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.


Mixed asset portfolios set up for the long term


Hitting ESG targets with a firm focus on profit


Getting the balance right


Interesting approaches to the land of the rising sun


Gold mining shares offer another way to diversify


Income from UK dividends maximised


Loving the unloved


Busting the small cap myths


Scottish Mortgage on the importance of unquoted investments


When it comes to long-term investing, few funds can match the credentials of the F&C Investment Trust.


ESG trailblazer well-placed as the rest catch up


Looking for steady growth around the world


Ketan Patel knows his fund was a pioneer


Steadily rising income that’s made in Britain


Long-term investing with long-term assets


Why the glass is half-full for UK dividends


Unloved, misunderstood or forgotten stocks


Shedding light on responsible investing


How to invest in uncertain times


Opportunity in connectivity


The future in focus.


Discerning approaches to technology


Simple but not easy


The Aussie rules to investing


Investors turn to sustainability


Fitzgerald on Brexit



    Show 
The objective of this section is to present users with objective news, information, data and guidance on personal finance topics drawn from a diverse collection of sources including affiliated and non-affiliated financial services publications. Content is not intended to provide tax, legal, insurance or investment advice and should not be construed as an offer to sell, a solicitation of an offer to buy, or a recommendation for any security or investment by any Fidelity entity or any third-party.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
Funds allow investors to pool their money together, which a fund manager will then invest on their behalf. The manager is responsible for choosing investments for the fund and tries to grow investors’ money by spreading it over a range of company shares, bonds etc.
Unit trusts, offshore funds and open-ended investment companies (OEICs) can all be referred to generically as funds.
Pool your money with other investors to take advantage of investment opportunities more easily than if you bought the individual assets yourself.
Fund managers use their knowledge, experience and research to help your money grow and provide you with an income, if required.
Invested across a number of different companies, you’re not relying too heavily on the fortunes of any one company.
However, there are a few things to consider, as well.
These funds are open-ended funds, meaning they can get larger or smaller depending on the number of investors who wish to buy into them.
As more people invest in the fund, the number of underlying shares grows; as they sell, the number reduces.
While offshore funds are exempt from tax, meaning any gains can be reinvested back into the fund without being taxed, how much tax you pay depends on your circumstances, such as the country you live in at the time.
There are two types of property funds: ‘Bricks and mortar’ property funds, and property company funds, such as Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs).
‘Bricks and mortar’ property funds invest in the buildings themselves. The fund takes responsibility for finding properties, handling the deals, seeking tenants and maintaining the buildings. You get a share of the rents paid by the property tenant, plus returns if the value of the properties owned by the fund increases.
While most property funds generally hold a cash buffer to meet short-term withdrawals, it may be difficult to redeem your investments at times of market stress. This is because the fund manager must sell physical property to meet redemptions, which may take time.
Property company funds invest in the shares of property companies. Global property funds can hold shares in Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs), which are listed on the stock market and their fund price reflects the value of the properties they own.
Exchange traded funds are similar to the funds mentioned above except that they act like a share themselves, and are openly traded on a stock exchange such as the FTSE All Share. Most ETFs aim to perform in line with a specific index or commodity (like gold) and often have low management fees. 

These are funds registered as public limited companies (PLCs) with their own management teams and boards of directors. They can invest in public and private companies, have a specific number of shares in issue and are traded on a stock exchange themselves. 

Passively managed funds attempt to match or track the movement of a stock market index.
Your investment reflects proportionately the companies listed in a particular index, like the FTSE 100, and the stock market dictates how well your investment does.
Actively-managed funds invest in a collection of companies the fund manager feels can outperform the index. To identify these funds, they analyse company fundamentals, meet the management and work to maintain a balance of good companies that will perform better than the market average in various market conditions.
These funds don’t track the movement of a particular stock market index.
A fund of funds invests primarily in other investment funds rather than directly into individual companies.
They provide an alternative to putting together your own portfolio of funds, monitoring and making changes. They provide ready-made portfolios managed by expert fund managers.
It takes time, experience, knowledge and skill to work out which fund could be the one right for you. Here’s what you need to consider along with your personal circumstances (like how much risk you’re willing to take).
 
UK stock market in focus as Brexit deadline draws closer
Graham Smith
Market Commentator
Mixed asset portfolios set up for the long term
Daniel Lane
Fidelity Personal Investing
Markets weigh up future growth concerns
Graham Smith
Market Commentator
Remember, the value of investments can go down as well as up so you may get back less than you invest. It’s important to understand that pension transfers are a complex area and may not be suitable for everyone. Before going ahead with a pension transfer, we strongly recommend that you undertake a full comparison of the charges, features, and services offered.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
Start saving just a small amount now on behalf of a child to make a real difference to their future.
Important information
Open an account on behalf of your child to help secure their retirement and receive a statement and valuation every six months to keep track of how your investments are doing.
Fill out the form we provide you with below, make a payment of at least £800, or start a regular savings plan from £50.
Thanks to long-term growth potential and the effect of compounding, investing just £3,600 into a Junior SIPP when your child is born can make a huge difference to their retirement savings. And, thanks to government tax relief, paying in only £2,880 will see £3,600 added to the child's Junior SIPP account.
Tax rules and reliefs are likely to change between now and a child’s retirement and the eligibility to invest in a pension will depend on personal circumstances. The amount you might get back at 65 is only a projection, it's not guaranteed. Please remember, how your investments perform and the charges may affect the value of your investments and you may not get back the amount you invested. You will not normally be able to withdraw money from a pension until you are 55. 
You can open a Junior SIPP for a child if you are their parent or guardian.
The account is held in the child’s name and the child must be under the age of 18.
You, or anyone else, can contribute up to £2,880 a year. These contributions will benefit from basic rate tax relief (currently 20%) from the government.
Tax relief from the government means up to £3,600 can be invested with only £2,880 needing to be paid in.
Control of the investments passes to the child when they turn 18, however the money is locked away until retirement age (usually after 55). At this point there will be a 
This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular product, service or course of action. If you are unsure about the suitability of a Junior SIPP for your personal circumstances, you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please print, complete and post the Junior SIPP form below.
You will need:
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                23 August 2019
                            
With their ability to plan for the super long term, a lot of trusts will focus purely on selecting the right equities for the portfolio. However, there are trusts out there mixing a range of assets with a view to navigating the choppiest of markets and reducing volatility over the long haul.
Here are three of the most popular mixed asset investment trusts on fidelity.co.uk this month:
RIT Capital Partners
Few trusts can draw upon a history of capital preservation comparable to that behind RIT Capital Partners.
Listed in 1988 by Lord Rothschild who remains chair, the trust employs a multi-asset approach to investing for the long-term, paying close attention to the founder’s original aims. Chief operating officer Jonathan Kestenbaum explains: “Since the trust began we have been alert to the fact that capital growth is only one element to our objectives, the other being a vigilant approach to capital preservation, which is a hallmark of the Rothschild history.”
With no constraints around asset allocation in the trust, management is free to invest where it sees the best opportunities. Typically, the trust will hold a blend of quoted and unquoted equities, internal and external funds, bonds, currencies and cash to provide investors with a truly diversified portfolio.
Striving for equity-type returns with less volatility, Kestenbaum says: “With no specific restrictions it makes it easier to manage risk by spreading assets as we see fit. We invest in three categories, namely public shares, private equity and funds. This type of strategy ensures that at any one time at least one of these cylinders is firing.”
While aiming to invest in a widely diversified international portfolio, management is conscious of over-diversification and seeks to control this by identifying quality opportunities and backing their ideas. Kestenbaum says: “We like to hold meaningfully-sized positions because if you’re not careful you’re left with a long tail of tiny positions. Our aim is to invest in such size as to make the positions meaningful for the portfolio.”
Murray International
“Short-termism is the scourge of the investment industry,” says Bruce Stout, manager of the Murray International Trust. In the mature stage of an equity bull market, the manager says that companies are missing the big picture by trying to grow constantly over the short term.
The growing pressure to hit rising quarterly targets is stopping companies investing in themselves for the future, says the manager. He explains: “After a period of strong growth you need to settle down and make sure everything is working well before you begin to grow again.”
In an environment of intense focus on growth the manager is keen to emphasise the importance of not overpaying for the prospect. Stout’s aim is to find companies that will prosper over the long term while staying mindful of paying the right price. He says: “We always have to be conscious that we’re not paying too much for a company. But of course being Scottish, that’s a great advantage.”
Rather than grouping countries and companies together, diversification is key for the manager’s global outlook. He points to the dangers of focusing on one area of the market and underlines the need for the type of long-term view employed in the Murray International Trust.
He explains: “The market likes concentration as we’ve seen with the obsession with the US and massive interest in the likes of the biotech sector. But we’ve seen concentration problems like the tech boom – these things pass and the novelties wear off. We aim to hold our companies for at least ten years and take each business on its own merits – we understand what’s happening in the countries but fundamentally we look at the companies.”
The trust currently has around 80% of the portfolio in equities, with 16% in fixed income, as the manager looks to deliver benchmark-beating returns with lower volatility than its peers.
Thank you. We've emailed you to confirm your subscription.
Personal Assets Trust
The most balanced of the three, the Personal Assets Trust is run specifically for private investors with a policy of protecting capital first. Growth plays second fiddle here as the fund takes a long-term view, looking to attract cautious investors concerned primarily with preservation rather than achieving high returns.
As such, the trust has a level balance between equities and bonds, currently holding 46% of the portfolio in company shares and 44% in fixed income. Manager Sebastian Lyon looks for high quality companies with pricing power and defensive characteristics in sectors like healthcare and consumer goods, avoiding cyclical stocks and firms with intense capital needs. Examples here include portfolio holdings Microsoft, Nestlé and Coca-Cola. In terms of fixed income, Lyon reduces the risk of the fund by holding a range of government bonds, most notably from the US and UK.
Cash takes up around 10% of the fund, serving as a diversifier and a source of readily available funds, should the opportunity arise to capitalise upon a new investment idea without cannibalising existing holdings.
More on 
More on 
More on 
Important information
 
UK car industry experiences worst decline since the financial crisis
Jonathan Wright
Fidelity Personal Investing
What are the yields on bonds and shares telling us?
Tom Stevenson
Investment Director
High street stores need to think differently
Daniel Lane
Fidelity Personal Investing
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                11 January 2019
                            
The jargon in the investment industry can be mind boggling. There are the obligatory TLAs (three letter acronyms) and the inevitable Greek letters but I find some of the most confusing to be those terms that tend to change meaning depending on who’s using them.
Sustainable
But with ethical investing sometimes at odds with traditional balance-sheet based stock picking in the minds of investors, I think it’s worth exploring how the sustainable label can bridge the gap between the two, rather than be the dividing factor.
Sustainable business practice
Long-term investing is about compounding growth steadily over the years, creating a snowball effect as interest builds on interest. As a result, for fund managers focused on the long term, the quality and integrity of a business model and the team employing it are paramount. This means avoiding companies with subpar checks and balances on their accounts, or those risking the reliability of quality growth for vanity projects or short-term profits.
In this sense, sustainability has nothing to do with ethics and everything to do with identifying trustworthy, dependable management with a good track record of delivering business progress and consistent growth. Wild swings in a firm’s performance or erratic changes in corporate strategy don’t scream sustainability to most people.
Environmental & social concern
Probably the most common understanding of sustainability is that attached to the positive development of societal or environmental concerns. If a business can make money while leaving the earth in a better condition than they found it or at least put back what they took out, then everyone’s a winner.
The issue is that investors sometimes equate this to sacrificing profits to satisfy emotion-led agendas, a point of view that needs to change according to David Osfield, co-manager of the 
And this is often where investors find the two sides start to complement each other. Sustainable business attributes don’t necessarily need to be tied to ethics. However, where they form the foundations of a company’s character, they often inform business strategy and end up in long-term sustainable practices.
For Bryn Jones, manager of the 
And as for the sustainability vs profits argument? Jones opines: “We do a lot of the things you’d expect from a mainstream manager in looking at the fundamentals of a business, so that’s not in any way sacrificed. In fact it’s augmented by additional levels of due diligence.”
In the end, sustainability (from an ethical mind-set or not) is about identifying responsible governance which sticks to principles investors can understand while being less likely to attract regulatory intervention and, for investors, a knock-on effect on the company’s value.
More on the 
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. Investors should note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
Our experts specialise in researching funds and finding great opportunities. For Select ETF, they've used their skills and knowledge to identify exchange-traded funds with potential for the long term, although this is not guaranteed.
Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) are an increasingly popular way to invest. These low-cost passively-managed funds track the performance of specific markets or certain types of investments, such as companies that pay a high level of dividend income.
You can view the list below, sorted into eight asset classes. It's reviewed and updated once a year.
Important information
Nick King, Head of ETFs at Fidelity International, explains how his team selected the investments that appear on Select ETF.
Our view
View the factsheet
 
Our view
View the factsheet
 
Our view
View the factsheet
 
Our view
View the factsheet
 
Our view
View the factsheet
 
Our view
View the factsheet
 
Our view
View the factsheet
 
Our view
View the factsheet
 
Our view
View the factsheet
 
Our view
View the factsheet
 
Our view
View the factsheet
 
Our view
View the factsheet
 
Our view
View the factsheet
 
Our view
View the factsheet
 
Our view
View the factsheet
 
Our view
View the factsheet
 
Our view
View the factsheet
 
Our view
View the factsheet
 
The Select ETF list is a pick list of our recommended ETFs that represent commonly used investment exposures and that we have selected based on a range of selection criteria set out below. The Select ETF list is, therefore, not a personal recommendation and so you must decide whether any investments on the list might be right for you. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment, we strongly recommend that you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.  Remember that the value of investments can go down as well as up so you may get back less than you invested.
The Select ETF list has been picked by the experts in our ETF and Multi Asset teams.  Our selection process is based on a range of criteria (summarised below) based on commonly used investment exposures and, when appropriate, that we feel are most likely to replicate the relevant index after all costs.
The key selection criteria include:
Universe
Categories
Qualitative metrics used for selection purposes
 A range of factual source data is used to analyse and then create the Select ETF List using Fidelity and third party systems and information using reliable market based data. The shortlist of ETFs is then scrutinised by our experts who apply their value judgement to make the final selections where multiple investment options are available.
You can view detailed information about each of the Select ETF investments via the latest individual factsheet which can be found on our Select ETF webpage. Factsheets are updated regularly and they contain current performance and valuation metrics, as well as key statistics to help investors make their own investment decisions.
The Select ETF list will be reviewed at least annually, although changes to the Select ETF list may be made at any time. Details of any investments either added to or removed from the Select ETF list in the last 12 months will be shown on our Select ETF web page.  
Changes to the Select ETF list can occur for a variety of reasons. Our expert analysts may have changed their view of an investment. Alternatively, its benefits to customers may have become more or less attractive relative to the other assets in its category.
You should not consider the addition or removal of an investment from the ETF Select List as a reason to buy or sell respectively or of its overall performance merits or otherwise. Remember that the list is not a personal recommendation and so you must decide what investments you wish to hold.
Fidelity operates a range of controls to minimise potential risks from conflicts that might arise. Within the Select ETF list, there may be funds provided by Fidelity when they have met the selection criteria. These funds will always be clearly identifiable as ‘Fidelity’ will appear in the fund name.
More information about our Conflicts of Interest policy is available within our Client Terms.
Please remember that the value of investments can go down as well as up so you may get back less than you invest. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser. Investors should note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                29 March 2019
                            
One way to dampen the effects of national politics, trade wars and Brexit negotiations on your portfolio is to make sure your money is spread across borders and not riding on a coin toss in any particular region or sector.
Global equity funds offer investors exactly that, often holding large, high quality companies from around the world with a view to being able to weather any storm, wherever it is.
Here are three of the most popular global funds on fidelity.co.uk this month:
Fundsmith Equity
Launched in 2010 with the aim of delivering returns unhindered by complicated trading strategies and possible corporate turnaround stories, the Fundsmith Equity Fund has grown in popularity and in size, currently sitting at £17.5bn.
The foundation of manager Terry Smith’s style lies in selecting high quality companies, with strong brands, capable management and high barriers to entry for their products and services.
If these firms can demonstrate high rates of return on capital, through increasing brand strength or cornering new markets, Smith will look to hold them for the long term. With the mantra ‘don’t just do something, sit there’ at the heart of the process, Smith keeps trading costs to a minimum by holding a concentrated portfolio of around 20-30 of these names, making a conscious effort to avoid chopping and changing companies in the fund.
While the fund started out life with a heavy tilt towards consumer staples and still holds more in the sector compared to many of its peers, the manager has added technology and healthcare names to the core holdings. PayPal, Microsoft and Intuit are now top ten constituents along with recently-added Facebook.
Healthcare appliance manufacturer Stryker epitomises Smith’s approach. The company makes and distributes medical equipment such as catheters, implants and joint replacements, as well as ‘small ticket consumer non-durables’ as Smith puts it, like single-use syringes. Once these have been used, they need to be discarded and re-ordered, providing the dependable business the manager likes to see.
Lindsell Train Global Equity
“Our feeling is - if you own a piece of a wonderful company, and we think every company we’re invested in is a fantastic business, why would you ever sell?” says Nick Train, co-manager of the Lindsell Train Global Equity Fund. In running the fund alongside Michael Lindsell and James Bullock, Train looks for business brands and franchises with strong evidence of durability and relevance to customers for decades to come.
A similar attitude to Smith, Train makes it clear that watching daily share price gyrations holds no place in his long-term strategy. Rather, the manager focuses on owning a part of the underlying businesses in the portfolio who show the ability to reinvest profits in their own companies, generating further long-term returns for shareholders.
Both students of the Buffett school of investing, Smith and Train look for unique businesses in control of their sector - a characteristic that leads to the large cap space, especially in the sector setting Train apart from many peers; beverages.
The fund names PepsiCo, 
This focus on world-leading brands often means contending with share prices at the top end of the spectrum, so will Train always pay up for quality? “Within reason,” he says, “with a true investment horizon you can at least continue to hold, if not buy more of these extraordinarily rare companies.”
And even if they’re expensive? “Frankly who cares? You shouldn’t care. You should care about your investing assets being allocated to things that are going to last, that won’t be obliterated by the next economic downturn and just may survive the period of technological transition that we are going through.”
Rathbone Global Opportunities
A brief look at the top holdings in James Thomson’s 
Thomson explains: “Tech is mission critical for some businesses and this perhaps is what has changed over the last decade. Being at the leading edge of new technology and staying relevant for the next wave of customers really is a top priority for every corporate CEO.”
This sustainability in customer proposition that Thomson looks for in the sector is no accident - it is very much a part of his rigorous, considered approach to identifying good quality companies for the fund he has run for 15 years.
Other ingredients in the manager’s ‘secret sauce’ include easy to understand businesses, companies growing quickly but sustainably, and prudent management teams with great vision for the future. He seeks out companies who are shaking up their industry but with positive long-term prospects rather than short-term fads.
A good example here is Abiomed, one of the fund’s top names. The company is a pioneer in innovative healthcare technology and counts the world’s first total replacement heart and the world’s smallest heart pump among its achievements.
Echoing Train, Thomson is pragmatic about paying a premium for shares in high quality businesses. He explains, “When you invest in a growth fund that’s probably one of the realities; growth rarely comes cheap. So, we have to balance the valuation of the business with the growth prospects. We don’t want to throw money into just anything, we have to believe the valuation is reasonable for the growth prospects but we are willing to pay up if we’re getting good quality sustainable growth.”
See more on:
Thank you. We've emailed you to confirm your subscription.
Important information
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. Overseas investments will be affected by movements in currency exchange rates. Investments in emerging markets can be more volatile than other more developed markets. Reference to specific securities or funds should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities or funds and is included for the purposes of illustration only. Select 50 is not a personal recommendation to buy or sell a fund. This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser





                                16 August 2019
                            
Long-term investing is about compounding growth steadily over the years, creating a snowball effect as interest builds on interest. As a result, for fund managers focused on the long term, the quality and integrity of a business model and the team employing it are paramount. This means avoiding companies with subpar checks and balances on their accounts, or those risking the reliability of quality growth for vanity projects or short-term profits.
But it’s also about being a part of the positive development of environmental social and governance standards (ESG) across the corporate world. In this sense, sustainability has nothing to do with ethics and everything to do with identifying trustworthy, dependable management with a good track record of delivering business progress and consistent growth.
If a business can make money while leaving the earth in a better condition than they found it or at least put back what they took out, then everyone’s a winner.
Here are three of the most popular sustainability-focused funds on 
Rathbone Ethical Bond
For Bryn Jones, manager of the 
But, as is often levelled at this part of the market, do investors have to give up some growth to invest sustainably? Jones explains: “We do a lot of the things you’d expect from a mainstream manager in looking at the fundamentals of a business, so that’s not in any way sacrificed. In fact it’s augmented by additional levels of due diligence.”
Jones’s main focus is identifying responsible governance which sticks to principles investors can understand while being less likely to attract regulatory intervention and, for investors, a knock-on effect on the company’s value.
A common misconception within the space is that this is where the ethical label ends, but rather than just looking to leave out companies that don’t hit the mark, there is also considerable scope to look for companies that seek to do good. Jones explains his approach: "We have a negative screening process which avoids companies with certain negative practices. These can range from environmental damage, mineral extraction, animal testing and pornography to gambling, tobacco and alcohol production. Then our positive screen looks for evidence of social or environmental change, gender equality in employment and work with charities, among other criteria. So, we're not only looking at negative things, we’re also looking for something that's nice and solid that gives a business a strong ethical bias.”
Fidelity Sustainable Water & Waste
Manager Bertrand Lecourt has been running money in the sustainable space for nearly 20 years and, as head of the 
The manager looks to invest in companies across the water and waste value chains, actively engaging with firms to maintain strong ESG credentials. The fund holds a blend of large established names and younger firms developing new technologies and efficiencies.
Using a bottom-up approach, Lecourt examines opportunities in the treatment, storage and distribution of water, as well as the transport, management and output (often through energy or fertilizer production) of waste. The manager believes the thematic fund is able to capitalise on one of the most historic megatrends that will only continue to become more important.
With 70% of the world’s population expected to live in cities by 2050, and most western sanitation infrastructure in need of renewal, Lecourt sees opportunity in engaging and facilitating technological change in the space, with an eye on profit for investors.
One of the manager’s aims is to maintain a better ESG profile than the fund’s peers – an aspect he keeps at the forefront of all portfolio inclusions.
Examples of companies in the fund include American Water Works, one of the largest listed water utility companies by revenue in the US, and Waste Management Inc, the country’s biggest solid waste management company.
Thank you. We've emailed you to confirm your subscription.
Kames Ethical Equity
“We have seen a big increase in the number of socio-responsible funds over the last 10 years but one size doesn’t fit all in the ethical space,” says Audrey Ryan manager of the 
With initial ethics-based analysis conducted by independent research service Eiris, Kames’s analysts add a layer of in-house scrutiny before prospective investments are passed to Ryan. Companies are excluded from consideration should they fail to meet the 12 social and environmental criteria inherent to the fund.
“Our screening process analyses companies based on their activities or the products they offer. We are one of the toughest ethical screeners and, if we are in doubt as to whether a business meets our criteria or not, we will not invest.” says Ryan.
These proprietary principles discard investment related to alcohol, animal welfare, banks with exposure to corporate or third-world debt, the environment, gambling, genetic engineering, arms, nuclear power, oppressive regimes, political donations, pornography and tobacco.
Ryan then gets on with investing, selecting companies secure in the knowledge that the filtered companies meet the fund’s ethical requirements.
The transparency of the fund’s focus is key for the manager, as she explains: “The fund is designed for investors who want to align their ethical views with their investments. The principles we have are clear and we communicate these with our investor base regularly so we stay on the same page.”
More on 
More on 
More on 
Important information 
 
UK car industry experiences worst decline since the financial crisis
Jonathan Wright
Fidelity Personal Investing
What are the yields on bonds and shares telling us?
Tom Stevenson
Investment Director
High street stores need to think differently
Daniel Lane
Fidelity Personal Investing
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
Make the most of saving for tomorrow by investing in a Stocks and Shares ISA with Fidelity.
Important information


Whether you’re saving for a special day, investing in your child’s future or building up a nest egg, we’ll help you to open your ISA with as little or as much guidance as you need.
Takes less than 10 minutes
Instruct your transfer in minutes
You can start investing once your account is open, but if you like you can 

With more than 50 years’ experience we’ve already earned the trust of over one million UK investors.
Start investing in just a few steps, with 24/7 online access from your computer, tablet or phone.
Enjoy low costs, no initial charges and no additional fees to switch or exit.
A stocks and shares ISA (or investment ISA) is an account that allows you to invest in a wide range of investments such as individual shares, exchange-traded funds, bonds and investment trusts.
You can invest up to the current ISA annual allowance with the benefit of not needing to pay tax on your investment gains.


The 2019/20 ISA allowance is £20,000, some or all of this can be invested in a stocks & shares ISA.


You can start a regular savings plan from as little as £50 or make a lump sum payment from £1,000.
As a third party, you are allowed to contribute to an ISA for someone else. Using our online application, the individual will have the option to provide your payment details once you have given consent.
The tax benefits of the ISA continue during the administration of your estate or the third anniversary of your date of death if sooner.
Once probate is granted, your personal representative can distribute your investments to the beneficiary or beneficiaries.
If eligible, your spouse (or civil partner) would be entitled to an additional allowance based on the value of your ISA. This is known as an Additional Permitted Subscription (APS).
What happens when an account holder has passed away
Find out how we can help you. Invest now for your chance to win £1,000 Amazon vouchers, T&Cs apply.
Five money tips you probably won’t learn at university
Jonathan Wright
Fidelity Personal Investing
Debt is now as much a part of student life as fresher’s week and essay dead...
Emma-Lou Montgomery
Fidelity Personal Investing
Fidelity’s Emma-Lou Montgomery answers all your ISA questions
Emma-Lou Montgomery
Fidelity Personal Investing
This information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser.
Make sure you have the following information with you:
If you’re an existing online customer, please log in to start your transfer
If you’re new to Fidelity, you'll need to open an account before you can start your transfer
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 

Update your browser
If you’re looking to get started, then you can browse through our investing videos, review more principles for good investing, explore investment types or take a deeper look into some of our guides that explain what investing is all about.
Important information




Explore our selection of videos, specially created to help you make the most of your investments—from choosing the right account, to finding out more about how your investments may be taxed.
Read more about balancing the chances of a loss with the benefits of a higher return over time.
Learn more about each asset class, its possible risks and potential benefits.
Find out how a regular savings plan can help your money grow.
Ever wondered how some investment types (like exchange-traded funds) actually work?
A fund is a unit trust, OEIC (open-ended investment company) or any other collective investment scheme.
Exchange-traded funds are funds that issue shares, which are traded on a stock exchange.
Investment trusts are Public Limited Companies (PLCs) that are listed on a stock exchange, so investors buy and sell from the market.
Buy shares in a company to own a small stake in it, with the potential for capital growth, dividend income or a blend of the two.
Explore our selection of product guides and videos, specially created to help you make the most of your investments—from choosing the right account, to finding out more about how your investments may be taxed.
Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance, the performance of investments is not guaranteed, and the value of your investments can go down as well as up, so you may get back less than you invest. When investments have particular tax features, these will depend on your personal circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. This website does not contain any personal recommendations for a particular course of action, service or product. You should regularly review your investment objectives and choices and, if you are unsure whether an investment is suitable for you, you should contact an authorised financial adviser. Before opening an account, please read the ‘Doing Business with Fidelity’ document which incorporates our client terms. Prior to investing into a fund, please read the relevant key information document which contains important information about the fund.
© FIL Limited 2019
                    
                    


Fidelity uses cookies to provide you with the best possible online experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on our site. However, you 






Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.
#1
investment platform in the

                      
£86bn
under administration for

                      
14
secs - average call answer

                      
Voted "Expert of the Year"

                      
#1
investment platform in the

                      
£86bn
under administration for

                      
14
secs - average call answer

                      
Voted "Expert of the Year"

                      
Gross means the rate without any tax deducted. Interest/profits are paid gross. You are responsible for paying any tax due on interest/profits that exceed your Personal Savings Allowance to HM Revenue & Customs.

     
AER (Annual Equivalent Rate) shows what the interest rate would be if returns were paid and compounded once each year. It helps you compare the rates on different savings products.

     
Shelter up to £20,000 this tax year with the low cost, award-winning ISA




Flexible fund and share dealing with no investment limits




Award-winning pension, easy to manage with wide investment choice




Pick and mix savings products from a range of banks and building societies, through one easy to use account


































Choose a portfolio packed with individual investments we’ve selected.
Build your own investment portfolio, starting with a few suggestions from us.
Start by exploring a shortlist of our experts’ favourite funds – the Wealth 50.


















7,207.18
19,393.63
4,009.02
3,953.02
5,376.32
4,411.74
Prices delayed by at least 15 minutes
26,403.28
7,962.88
11,939.28
5,480.48
20,704.37
25,724.73
Prices delayed by at least 15 minutes
6:43pm, 30 August 2019
6:01pm, 30 August 2019
2:32pm, 30 August 2019
11:42am, 30 August 2019
Choose a portfolio packed with individual investments we’ve selected.
Build your own investment portfolio, starting with a few suggestions from us.
Start by exploring a shortlist of our experts’ favourite funds – the Wealth 50.
Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.






A flexible, tax-efficient way to save for retirement






A

            
Like other pensions, the government will still give you up to 46% tax relief on the amount you pay in. Once your money

            is in a SIPP, you won’t have to pay tax on any gains or income your investments make.
A

            
You’ll have more freedom, but it also means you’ll be responsible for your own investment choices, so it may not be

            the right pension for everyone.
Like other pensions, the government will still give you up to 45% tax relief (up to 46% in Scotland) on the amount you pay in. Once your money

            is in a SIPP, you won’t have to pay tax on any gains or income your investments make.
Transfer a pension worth £5,000 or more to HL and we’ll give you between £50 - £500. The money is a thank you from us, it won’t come out of your account or investments.
The more you transfer, the more you receive.

                        
To automatically qualify you must apply by 3 September 2019. Need more time to decide?

                        
You’ll receive your cashback after the offer closes and all transfers have completed. The money will be paid into your HL loyalty bonus account. To keep the cashback, all we ask is that you keep your account with us for a year.
The HL SIPP is free to set up and low cost to run. Our yearly charge for holding investments is never more than 0.45%.

          Some investments have their own annual charges, and we are often able to offer market-leading discounts on these.
It’s free to buy and sell funds. Other dealing charges depend on the type of investment and how often you trade.


If you’re a UK resident under 75, you can usually pay in as much as you earn, up to £40,000 a year, and get tax relief.

          You may be able to pay in more than £40,000 if you have unused allowance from previous years.




You can start, stop, increase and decrease your pension contributions whenever you like.


There’s no charge for transferring a pension to Hargreaves Lansdown, but please check you won’t lose

                          valuable benefits or incur excessive exit fees first. There’s just one simple form to complete and

                          we’ll take care of the rest, including contacting your current provider for you.


Learn more about transferring
Please read the

                          
To add money with a debit card online or using the HL app, log in to your account and under ‘Actions’

                          choose ‘Top up’. Then follow the instructions to enter your debit card details and make your payment.
You can also call us on 0117 980 9897 to top up your SIPP.
Please read the

                          
Invest monthly into your choice of funds with no dealing charge. If you would like to invest monthly

                          in shares and selected investment trusts & exchange-traded funds (ETFs), the dealing charge is £1.50

                          per stock.
You can start, stop, increase and decrease your Direct Debit whenever you like. Log in to your account

                          and choose the ‘Monthly savings’ tab to get started.
There’s no charge for transferring a pension to Hargreaves Lansdown, but please check you won’t lose

                          valuable benefits or incur excessive exit fees first. Clients can start the transfer process online

                          by logging in to their accounts. Otherwise, you just complete one simple paper form. We’ll take care

                          of the rest, including contacting your current provider for you.
If you still have unanswered questions about transferring a pension, book your 
Learn more about transferring
There are thousands of funds out there, but we believe some have more potential than others. Our team of experts

                has highlighted three funds they feel give promising investment opportunities for SIPP investors.


Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager funds are managed by our sister company HL Fund Managers Ltd. The Lindsell Train Global Equity fund currently has a holding in Hargreaves Lansdown plc.
This fund is one of our favourite ways to take advantage of value investing, and is a good option for income. It’s focused on the UK stock market, which we think has great long-term prospects.


Our experts look for truly exceptional companies from all around the world. They pick companies they think are in charge of their own destiny, and that can benefit from a virtuous circle of growth.


Japanese companies have been growing their profits faster than share prices have been letting on. This fund is our favourite way to invest, and has a manager with over 25 years’ experience at the helm.




A flexible, tax-efficient way to save for retirement








Money in your pension is locked away until you’re 55 (57 from 2028). But any time after that, you can start to withdraw money, even if you’re still working.


Have a look at our 
MR HASTINGS, Devon
GOLD STANDARD FOR PERSONAL PENSIONS 2018

                
BEST DIRECT SIPP PROVIDER 2018

              
BEST ONLINE SIPP PROVIDER 2017

              
See all of our awards
0117 980 9926


1. You’ll receive a cash amount between £50 and £500, depending on the amount you transfer, when you transfer to us at least £5,000 worth of an existing pension into our HL SIPP from another provider, subject to these terms and conditions. Please be aware the following exclusions apply to this offer: (1) the lodgement of certificated shares will not qualify for the offer; (2) new money cash subscriptions into any HL account will not qualify for the offer; (3) if the HL SIPP is your current workplace pension and you transfer previous pensions provided by your current employer, then the offer isn’t available for these transfers; (4) defined benefit/final salary pension transfers don’t qualify for the offer.
2. The offer doesn’t apply to investments already held in the HL service, or to switches or transfers between or within existing HL accounts or to income and interest received on any assets held in those accounts.
3. The offer is funded by Hargreaves Lansdown’s money. Don’t worry, the cash is not coming from your pension or investments. We intend to make the offer available until 3 September 2019. However, we reserve the right to remove or suspend this offer if necessary, including for legal or regulatory reasons or otherwise, by posting a notice on our website. If the offer closes early, all qualifying applications received up until this time will still be accepted.
4. The offer will only apply to cashback transfer forms coded SCCB1, RTCB1 SCCB2, SCCB3, SCCB4, AWSCB, APSCB, AWST5, APST5, APST5, AWSC3, IT2CB, OTMQA, OTK,  OTP, OTD received by us between 7June 2019 and 3 September 2019. The application code should be found in the top right of a form. If transferring a pension for drawdown, you must include a note requesting cashback with your application to qualify. As long as we receive your transfer form within the offer period, even if the transfer itself isn’t completed until after the offer closes, you‘ll still qualify. If you need more time to decide whether you want to transfer to us, please 
5. The cashback payment will be paid into your Loyalty Bonus Account after the offer has closed and within 1 month of completing your transfer, which will be determined by us. The Loyalty Bonus Account is separate from the HL ISA, Fund and Share Account, and SIPP. The cash can be kept in the Loyalty Bonus Account for fee collection, withdrawn or moved into whichever HL account you choose. If moved into an ISA or SIPP, it’ll count towards your annual allowance.
6. The value of your cashback will be based on the total value of transfers you make within the offer period into an HL SIPP, not the value of each transfer. The values will be determined on the day we receive the proceeds for each. It isn’t possible to combine the value of transfers into accounts with different client numbers for the purpose of this offer. The maximum amount of cashback you can receive under this offer is £500.
7. We ask you keep your HL SIPP for one year. Please feel free to switch between investments and in or out of cash within your account, but if you decide to transfer away or close your account within 12 months of the date your transfer completes, then we reserve the right to reclaim the cashback paid. If cash is to be reclaimed then you’ll be notified and the cash will be taken within 7 days of the account closure or transfer.
8. We also reserve the right to determine how the cash offer is calculated. Therefore, if you’re unsure how your transfers will be treated under the terms of this offer, please contact us before you return your transfer form. By submitting a qualifying application, you agree to be bound by the terms of this offer. The terms are governed by the laws of England and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.
9. The offer can’t be used in conjunction with any other transfer offer.
Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.




Narrow the field with our favourite funds




Looking to invest in a fund? With more than 3,000 funds available, the choice can be bewildering.
The Wealth 50 can help – it’s a shortlist of our experts’ favourite funds. 
We’ve spent decades and thousands of hours crunching the numbers, and meeting fund managers, to uncover funds we

            believe have the most potential in each sector. To date, we’ve had an enviable track record.


When you buy a Wealth 50 fund you can be confident it's passed rigorous tests.


Using the collective size and power of one million clients, we negotiate hard to get you some of the lowest fund

            charges across the industry. See how much you could save on the annual charge:
*The monthly charge depends on the exact value of your investments each month. To keep things simple, this example

            didn't include investment growth. The average charges exclude index tracker funds, which have much lower charges

            still – and we have also got you great discounts on these.

        


Most funds on the Wealth 50 are actively managed. They aim to perform better than their benchmark over the long term.
If you want to invest in tracker funds, we've got that covered too. Trackers aim to track their index as closely

            as possible. With less management involved, this keeps costs to a minimum.
Have a look at our

            


Leave the hard work to us
Personal advice
When you buy a Wealth 50 fund, you'll get an update each time we meet the managers, so you'll know exactly what's

            going on with your money. And if our views on the fund change, you'll be the first to know.
2 funds were removed from the Wealth 50 on 31 July 2019.


Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares are held in both the Lindsell Train UK Equity and Lindsell Train Global Equity funds. As the funds have grown in size, the investment in Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares has grown too.
We continue to have high conviction in managers Nick Train, Michael Lindsell and James Bullock and their ability to outperform in the future. This is not a decision based on a change in our view of the managers or a reflection of their performance.
2 funds were removed from the Wealth 50 on 3 June 2019.


While dealing remains open for the Woodford Income Focus Fund, we took the decision to also remove it

                        from the Wealth 50.
1 fund was removed from the Wealth 50 on 3 April 2019.


Taketsume hasn’t been in fund management long enough to convince us he'll deliver strong performance

                        in the future. All fund managers go through periods where their investment style is out of favour.

                        But if a manager is less experienced, it's harder to have confidence they'll pull it back.
3 funds were added to the Wealth 50 on 9 January 2019.






27 funds were removed from the Wealth 50 on 9 January 2019.
These funds didn't make the cut, but we still think these are good funds run by very good managers.


The ongoing costs associated with the fund. This will include both the fund manager's annual charge and some other expenses such as depositary, registrar, accountancy, auditor and legal fees, but not the fund's transaction costs such as dealing commissions.
Sometimes ongoing savings come from a loyalty bonus - part of the fee gets paid back to you. They're tax-free in an ISA or SIPP but you might have to pay tax in a Fund and Share Account.
The synthetic risk and reward indicator measures a fund's volatility. The higher the number, the higher the level of volatility or risk, and vice versa. The number is calculated by each investment group, not Hargreaves Lansdown. They follow a set of rules laid out by the Financial Conduct Authority.
It's based on how much a fund's risen or fallen in the past. Usually the more risk taken, the higher the potential return, but the greater the risk of loss.
Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.




Open or top up an ISA with existing investments
Bed and ISA now


Bed and ISA might sound complicated, but it's in fact a very easy process. 
It simply involves selling investments that you hold outside an ISA and using the proceeds to open or top up your ISA - all with a single instruction. 
You can choose to repurchase the same investments, buy another investment or just hold cash. 
It's flexible, cost-effective and is a great way to make use of your valuable ISA allowance.
Please remember, tax rules can change and any benefits will depend on your personal circumstances.
Online
Postal
Online
Postal
*Share dealing charges depend on the number of trades you've placed in the previous month. When buying the same shares back within the ISA, there'll be a small difference in price due to the bid offer spread. Along with commission and stamp duty, this means you won't buy back the same number of shares as you sold. 
**When buying funds back there may be an initial charge or bid offer spread, but most of the time our discounts reduce or eliminate this altogether. Due to the way these investments are dealt, the re-purchase is often not placed until the following working day. This means you could be out of the market for a short period.
MR MANN, Norfolk
MS KONOP, London
Placing a Bed and ISA instruction online is easy. In fact, over 94% of our clients said the process was good, very good or excellent.*
So if you already hold shares or funds in an HL Fund and Share Account, all you need to do is:
Alternatively, you can download our  
*HL Client Satisfaction Survey, May 2018, 354 respondents
We'll aim to place your first deal as soon as possible - usually within four working days of receipt.

                                However, when dealing volumes are unusually high (such as the end of the tax year), there may be a

                                delay. 
'Placed' for shares means the instruction will be dealt at the live market price. For funds, the

                                instruction is passed to the fund manager to be dealt at the fund's next valuation point.
No. When selling and buying shares or funds, there'll normally be a difference in price due to the

                                bid-offer spread, and/or the price moving on your fund. Together with the dealing commission and

                                stamp duty (where applicable), this means you won't buy back the same number of shares or units as

                                you sell.
We always try to minimise the bid-offer spread on Bed and ISA share trades and we’ll buy back your

                                shares immediately after they’ve been sold.
Yes. Simply complete a 
Alternatively, after processing your certificated Bed and ISA we'll send you a CREST transfer form

                                which must be signed and returned to our office. Balance share certificates – where applicable –

                                will be returned on completion of the Bed and ISA.
Yes, it’s possible to Bed and SIPP your investments. It’s the same process as a Bed and ISA

                                instruction, except your investments are bought back in a SIPP instead of an ISA.
When you invest in a SIPP, the government will give you up to 46% tax relief on the money you pay in.

                                And once your money is in a SIPP, you won’t have to pay tax on any gains or income your investments

                                make. But remember, you can’t normally access money in a pension (SIPP) until at least 55 (57 from

                                2028).
If you already hold shares or funds in an HL Fund and Share Account, you can Bed and SIPP your

                                investments by:
Alternatively, you can download our 
Bed and SIPP now
Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.




An easy to manage, low-cost dealing account




A low-cost, flexible account that allows you to buy, sell and hold your investments in one, safe place.
You can open an account online in minutes with your debit card and NI number. Then view and deal your investments 24/7

            online or with the 
If you'd prefer to speak to a person, a Bristol-based helpdesk is on hand.
Please note investments can go up as well as down in value so you could get back less than you put in.


It's free to hold shares in the Fund and Share Account. Share dealing costs a maximum of £11.95 per UK deal online.
For funds, there's no dealing charges and a maximum annual charge of 0.45%.
 We offer a low-cost reinvestment service. 


We'll take care of all the transfer work for you




MR HASTINGS, Devon




0117 900 9000


Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.




A secure income for life






            An annuity is one of the only ways of providing a secure income from your pension.

        


            You can exchange some, or all, of your pension with an insurance company for an annuity. In return, you’ll

            receive a guaranteed

            income for life. The amount of income you receive will depend on the value of your pension, your

            circumstances

            and the options you choose.

        


            Your annuity will last regardless of how long you live, or what happens to the stock market. Though once you

            set up an annuity,

            you usually can’t change or cancel it, so it’s important to choose your annuity options carefully.

        


            You can buy an annuity anytime from 55 (57 from 2028). Your annuity income will be taxed, but you can

            usually take up to

            25% of your pension pot tax free first. Tax rules can change and their benefits depend on your

            circumstances.

        




            Your current pension provider might not offer you the

            


            This isn’t the only way to increase your income. Annuity providers can pay you a higher income if you

            provide health and

            lifestyle details. You don’t have to be ill to qualify. Last year, more than half of our annuity clients

            qualified

            for an

            


            If you choose an annuity, there are options available to suit your needs.

        


            You can choose how often you receive your income, what happens to your annuity after you're gone and whether

            you want to

            protect your income from inflation.

        


You don't have to use all of your pension to buy an annuity – it’s entirely up to you how much you use. For

            example,

            you can also split your pension between an annuity and

            


                        Answer a few questions about you and your pension to find out how much income you could get from

                        an annuity.

                    




                        Annuity rates change regularly and may go up or down in the future. Your quotes will be

                        guaranteed for a

                        
Now retired I spend a lot of my time in Greece enjoying the climate, culture and

                                    food. I

                                    decided to purchase an annuity because I wanted the security it offered. By

                                    confirming

                                    details about my height, weight and alcohol intake Hargreaves Lansdown were able to

                                    get

                                    me an enhanced annuity quote offering nearly £900 more income than that offered by

                                    some

                                    of the other providers.
Mr MCLEVER, Devon
Hargreaves Lansdown were brilliant in setting up my annuity. They did all the legwork

                                    for

                                    me by shopping around and finding me the highest income available from my pension.

                                    Everything

                                    was finalised within three weeks of first enquiring. I particularly liked that

                                    whenever

                                    I rang I spoke to someone straight away who was able to help.

                                
MR REEVES, Wiltshire
I read about HL in the paper and I used the online tool to get some annuity quotes.

                                    The figures

                                    were thousands of pounds better than my pension provider's even though they were

                                    from

                                    the same insurance companies! Whenever I phoned the HL helpdesk I found it to be

                                    helpful

                                    and they always called back when they said they would.

                                
MR FRANKLIN, Middlesex
I just wanted to say thank you for the enhanced RPI protected annuity quote received

                                    today.

                                    Thanks to you making it so easy I am going to receive an annual sum £2,500 greater

                                    than

                                    the lowest standard quote, and this is entirely down to your team. I remain hugely

                                    impressed

                                    with the service you provide.

                                
MR COE, Stockton-on-Tees
How well do you understand annuities?

                        
Take our quick quiz to test your knowledge and pick up some helpful pointers.

                        




                            Take your time learning more about annuities with our guide.

                        


Give us a call on

                            
We're here for you six days a week:

                            
Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.


                        Want to start investing? We’re here to help

                    


We think one of the easiest ways to invest is to buy a tracker fund. For Simply Invest, we’ve chosen

                        the Legal & General UK Index fund.
It’s like owning a small slice of around 650 UK companies, big and small, so you don’t have all your

                        eggs in one basket. You'll already be familiar with some of these companies - some of the best known

                        brands are shown below. But you don’t have to choose them. It’s all done for investors, in one investment.

                        And it’s one of the lowest-cost funds available. But it’s not personal advice, so if you’re not sure

                        it’s right for you please take advice.
You’ll get regular updates on how your investment’s doing, and a low-down on all things investing. We’ll

                        ditch the jargon and pass on our 30+ years of experience, with simple tips to help you make the most

                        of your money.
The stock market has historically given you a better chance of growing your money than leaving it in

                        cash.

                    
But unlike cash, it’s not guaranteed. Stock markets will rise and fall. So there’s always a chance you

                        could lose money.
The longer you invest, the better your chance of growing your money. That’s why we suggest you invest

                        for at least 5 years. It can help iron out these ups and downs, but there’s no guarantee. 








If you had £1,000 invested for a year, it would cost you a total of £4.90.
There aren't any charges to buy and sell, and no fixed account fees.
This is a simplified example. Your costs will rise and fall if your investment goes up or down in value.




Log in to your account online or through the HL app and check your investment whenever suits

                                    you.

                                
Log in or open a new account and choose how much you'd like to invest.


Let us know your goals and risk appetite and we’ll show you a ready-made portfolio

                                                that’s the best match.


MISS HODGINS, Gloucestershire
If you’re looking for more information, download our ‘How to start investing in the stock

                                    market’ guide.


Please read the

            
Important information
Investments can go down in value as well as up, so you might get back less than you invest. The value of tax savings

            will depend on your circumstances and tax rules can change over time. If you are unsure of the suitability of

            any investment for your circumstances please contact us for advice.




Like money in a bank account investments need a place to live. Please choose where you'd like to hold your

                    L&G UK index fund and get started with Simply Invest.


Save tax - no capital gains tax and no further UK tax to pay on income from your investments.




Invest outside an ISA or pension with no investment limits.


Get a 25% government boost towards your first home or later life. There’s a 25% government charge

                                if you withdraw your money before you’re 60 or aren’t buying your first home, so you could

                                get back less than you put in.
You must be between 18 and 39 years old to open a Lifetime ISA.




Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.




Build your pot from £25 a month


Adding money every month is an easy and affordable way to grow your money. You can set up a Direct Debit from just £25 and invest in a wide range of investments.
When you set up your monthly investment, you can choose your investment or add the money as cash and pick investments later.
It’s flexible investing monthly. You can place an instruction to change where you invest, change the amount you contribute or stop your payments at any time.
Where can I invest?
It's easy to start investing monthly in a Fund and Share Account, Stocks and Shares ISA, Lifetime ISA, Junior

                Stocks and Shares ISA, or Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
There are no dealing charges for funds, and a dealing commission of just £1.50 per trade for shares, ETFs and investment trusts.
More about our charges
 You can set up a Direct Debit when you open an HL account.


You'll just need your bank details to hand.




Investing a little each month can help smooth any ups and downs from the stock market. That's because you're buying over

              time instead of putting your money all in at once.
It also means you don't have to worry about when the right time to invest is.
All investments can fall as well as rise in value so you could get back less than you invest. 


These aren’t guaranteed rates, just examples.




To make these calculations, we've included an annual charge of 1.25%, but this could be

                lower or higher, depending on the investments you hold. We haven’t factored in inflation. These

                results are based on a growth rate of 5%, unless you have adjusted the growth rate in 'Additional

                options'.
Tax rules can change and any benefits depend on your circumstances.
If you decide not to pick an investment when setting up your Direct Debit, your money will be

                                            held as

                                            cash in your account.
You can change this at any time:
You can also call us on 
Your Direct Debit will go out on the 7th of each month (or the next working day). We’ll invest

                                            your payment

                                            for you on the 10th of the month (or within three working days).
At the moment, it’s not possible to choose different dates.
If you want to change your Direct Debit amount, you'll have to do so seven working days before it

                                            goes out (on the 7th of every month, or the next working day).
You can also call us on 
Your Direct Debit will stay the same even if you buy and sell investments in your account.
You can change your investments online up until 11:59pm on the day before we collect your Direct

                                            Debit.

                                        
You can also call us on 
If you want to cancel your next Direct Debit, you'll have to do so seven working days before it

                                            goes out (on the 7th of every month, or the next working day). But if you miss the deadline, you

                                            can always cancel it directly with your bank.
You can also call us on 
Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.






Our range of low-cost accounts are designed to make investing quick and straightforward. It gives you the opportunity to take control and get the most from your 
We give you the tools and information to help you make your own investment decisions:
The experience gained over four decades has allowed us to develop a service tailored precisely to the needs of private investors. 95% of our clients rate our service as excellent, very good or good (client satisfaction survey conducted by HL in May 2016 with 11,537 respondents).
Hargreaves Lansdown has been helping clients choose and manage investments since 1981, and we now look after £85 billion on behalf of 1,136,000 clients (30 April 2018). Safety of our clients' assets is our priority.
Find out more about the security of your investments


  £5.95 - £11.95 per share deal online and no investment limits


Low-cost, tax-efficient way to invest in funds and shares
 
 Award-winning pension with a wide investment choice
 
 Adults under 40 can save for a first home or retirement with a boost from the government


  Find an HL account that's right for you
Watch our videos
Or download a 
No charge to buy or sell funds, and online share dealing at £11.95 per deal, or as low as £5.95 per deal for active traders.
Invest in over 2,500 funds, shares listed on the UK, US, Canadian and European stock exchanges, corporate and government bonds, ETFs, Investment Trusts and much more.
From our 
Our highly regarded research team offer free research and comment on a broad range of different funds to help you make better investment decisions.
View our latest investment ideas
Open an account online in less than 5 minutes
Choose from a wide range of funds, shares, ETFs and more
Access to super low-cost funds and share dealing
Manage your account online or using our free mobile and tablet apps
Expert Bristol-based helpdesk
0117 900 9000
Opening times
Read our FAQs
Email us


Key for me is having information easily available so that I can make informed judgements.  Your website provides comprehensive information in an easily accessible format regarding funds, etc.  You also provide a wealth of other information such as that provided in your Investment Times which I read from cover to cover.






The user friendly website is excellent, this allows me to keep a close watch on my investments.  When I require telephone trading your staff answer the phone promptly and deal with my instructions efficiently - it's a pity more businesses aren't run like this.




Fast phone access, courteous and expert verbal responses, excellent website research & data




Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.




Buy and sell shares with the UK's No1 broker


Open a Fund and Share Account


You have the freedom to choose the investments that suit you:
You can buy and sell shares in minutes online, or on the 
Dealing charges depend on how many trades you make each month. There’s no charge for inactivity, and it’s free to hold shares in an HL Fund and Share Account. 
View all charges
Buying your first share, building a portfolio or actively trading? Get everything you need to deal, research and manage your shares. All in one secure place.
You can buy and sell shares in any HL account, and get started in minutes. Once you have an account, dealing is easy. Log in, choose your shares, get a live price, and trade. That’s it. We’ll confirm the price and charges and your shares will be held in your account.
No charge to hold shares in our straightforward dealing account.
Open a fund and share account
More on the fund and share account
No UK tax and low annual charges. Shelter up to £20,000 each year.
Open a stocks and shares ISA
More on ISAs
MR BAILEY, London
MR PRITCHFORD, Bedfordshire
MISS WOOLVINE, Merseyside
Open a Fund and Share Account
Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.




Explore a range of funds managed by our experts
Important information
Our team of in-house investment experts manage a range of Multi-Manager funds (fund-of-funds) and our HL Select range of equity funds. We spend thousands of hours researching, drilling into numbers, meeting fund managers and researching companies to try and find the best investment opportunities on the market. Our growing collection of funds means we cater to a range of investment objectives.
Our range of equity funds, offering a high level of transparency and insight.
Our HL Select range brings a new dimension to funds. Our funds are concentrated portfolios of exceptional shares with long-term potential, and offer a high level of investor insight. Learn how, when and why we choose our holdings via our regular updates and fund blogs. See where your money is invested, with a daily portfolio holdings breakdown.
View our HL Select funds
Ten funds that offer instant diversification for a range of sectors across the globe.
Our team are dedicated experts, they manage the funds and ensure they are well-positioned to achieve their objectives.
We have a strong track record - since launching our first fund 15 years ago we have delivered impressive long-term returns. While we are proud of this record, our focus is on helping our clients make the most of their money in future.
View our HL Multi-Manager Funds
Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.




Important
Find out more
Find out more
Find out more
Even small amounts tucked away regularly can build up a substantial nest egg, although inflation will reduce the spending power of that money over the long term. Assuming a growth rate of 5% a year, after charges, the table below shows how much a monthly investment could be worth in future. All investments can fall as well as rise, so your child could get back less than you invest.
Find out how you can start investing for a child's or grandchild's future.


Whichever account you choose, you can be confident it will be easy to manage, there will be a wide investment choice and it will be great value for money. See how our three accounts for children compare. Tax rules can change and benefits depend on individual circumstances.






Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.




An extra boost towards your first home or later life
An extra boost towards your first home or later life




A Lifetime ISA is a flexible way to save and invest for your first home or later life. You can open one if

            you’re between 18 and 39 years old. 
As with other ISAs, you can choose to save cash or invest in the stock market, and your money can grow free

            from UK tax. But the real benefit is an extra 25% from the government of up to £1,000 a year.
You can invest up to

            
You need to be between 18 and 39 to open a Lifetime ISA. But you can still pay in – and get the government

            bonus – until you turn 50.
Tax rules can change and their benefits depend on your circumstances.
Invest up to
£4,000
each tax year
each year and receive

                            
and receive a

                            
25%
After 12 months from the first payment, you can use the money to make an eligible house purchase for a

            property worth up to £450,000. Or you can wait until you're 60 and take your money out then.
If you want to take money out before you're 60 and you aren't buying your first home, there's usually a 25%

            government

            charge. That means you could get back less than you originally put in.
Learn more about taking money from a Lifetime ISA in our 
The annual charge for holding investments in a Lifetime ISA is never more than 0.45%. Your dealing and other

            charges will depend on the investments you choose and will apply in addition to our annual account charge.

        


Once you've decided you'd like to open a Lifetime ISA, it takes less than five

                                    minutes to get started.
You can start a Lifetime ISA with 
You'll just need a 
Open a Lifetime ISA
Just let us know and we'll take care of the rest.
You can also hold cash in your Lifetime ISA.
With a Lifetime ISA your investment choice will probably depend on when you need to use the

                        money.

                        
With investing, the potential returns are higher, though you can also make a loss.


You can withdraw your money tax free when you’re ready to use it for an eligible

                                                house purchase (worth up to £450,000), after you turn 60, or if you are terminally

                                                ill. The Lifetime ISA must be opened for 12 months from the date of the first

                                                payment. 
You can take money out at other times too (including in the first 12 months), but

                                                there will usually be a 25% charge from the government. This could mean you get back

                                                less than you put in.
You’ll need to have had your Lifetime ISA for a full year, and you’ll need to be a

                                                first-time buyer.
The house you’re buying has to be in the UK and cost £450,000 or less. This is just

                                                the house price and it doesn’t include fixtures and fittings. It also needs to be

                                                your main residence. If it’s still being built, it’ll need to be your main residence

                                                as soon as it’s ready for you to live in.
You’ll need to be buying the house with a mortgage, regulated home purchase plan or

                                                through a shared ownership arrangement. If you’re buying a house with cash, you can

                                                still use your Lifetime ISA money. But you’d have to pay the government withdrawal

                                                charge, which means you could get back less than you put in.
Your Lifetime ISA is opened from the date you pay money into it – either with a lump

                                                sum, direct debit or from a transfer.
You’re a first-time buyer if you don’t own, and have never owned, a residential

                                                property anywhere in the world, either by yourself or together with someone else.

                                                This includes any property that you inherited or that was given to you.
We claim the government bonus for you and add it to your Lifetime ISA. We’ll do this

                                                as soon as possible each month and you should see it in your account in four to nine

                                                weeks from the date of your contribution. Please note, the bonus will be added to

                                                your Lifetime ISA as cash and you can just place your investment instruction when

                                                you’re ready. This can be easily done online, over the phone or in writing. 
Yes, you can open and add money to other types of ISAs (Cash ISAs, Stocks and Shares

                                                ISAs or Innovative Finance ISAs) alongside your Lifetime ISA. You’ll only be able to

                                                save into one Lifetime ISA each tax year.
You can contribute up to £20,000 across all your ISAs in the

                                                2019/20 tax year, with up to £4,000 in your Lifetime ISA. The

                                                government bonus doesn’t count towards the £20,000 overall limit or the £4,000

                                                Lifetime ISA limit.
You can only open a Lifetime ISA in your name. This is the same with all ISAs. But

                                                each adult under 40 can open a Lifetime ISA. So first-time buyers buying together

                                                could both use their Lifetime ISA and bonus towards their home.
If you don’t need a LISA to save towards your first home, you can use it towards your

                                                retirement (after age 60). You’ll get the same top up from the government (25%) on

                                                top of any contributions you make until your 50th birthday.
A LISA should be seen as a complement to a pension when saving towards later life.

                                                But you should note that a pension is often the better option, especially if you

                                                receive contributions from an employer or you’re a higher rate taxpayer.
If you decide to opt out of your workplace pension to pay into a LISA, you won’t

                                                benefit from any employer-matched contributions and it may affect your current or

                                                future entitlement to means-tested state benefits.
MR HASTINGS, Devon
Best Direct Lifetime Stocks & Shares ISA Provider

                            
0117 900 9000


Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.




An easy way to invest free from UK tax
An easy way to invest free from UK tax






Whether you're new to investing or already an expert, you can choose your own investments with our Stocks and Shares ISA.
Money in your Stocks and Shares ISA is free from UK tax. And although investing is best for the long term, you can withdraw your money whenever you need to. 
Whether you're new to investing or already an expert, you can choose your own investments with our Stocks and Shares ISA.
Money in your Stocks and Shares ISA is free from UK tax. And although investing is best for the long term, you can withdraw money whenever you need to.
You can think of a Stocks and Shares ISA as a shopping basket. The investments you put in the basket are up to you, and the ISA shelters them from UK income tax and capital gains tax. 
 
Each tax year (6 April to 5 April) there’s a limited amount of money you can put in ISAs. This tax year the ISA allowance is 
Tax rules for ISAs can change and their benefits depend on your circumstances.
Each tax year (6 April to 5 April) there’s a limited amount of money you can put in ISAs. This tax year the ISA allowance is 
Tax rules for ISAs can change and their benefits depend on your circumstances.
You can invest in a wide variety of stocks, shares and funds within your ISA. You can choose funds or shares with our expert research to help you make your investment decisions. 
Or if you need more help or you’re short on time, you can choose a 
You can also open an HL Stocks and Shares ISA with cash now, and decide where to invest later.


 
The annual charge for holding investments in an HL Stocks and Shares ISA is never more than 0.45%.
Your dealing and other charges will depend on the

      investments you choose.


Once you've decided to invest your ISA allowance, it takes less than five minutes to get started. You'll just need a

                  
Two simple ways to start your ISA
Choose from over 2,500 funds, shares, investment trusts and more to build your portfolio.
Let us know your goals and risk appetite and we’ll show you a ready-made portfolio that matches.
Want to transfer an existing ISA to us? Just let us know and we’ll take care of the rest. 
Please read the

                  
To add money with a debit card online or using the HL app,

                log in to your account and under 'Actions' choose 'Top up'. Then follow the instructions to enter your debit

                  card details and make your payment.
You can also call us on 0117 980 9950 to add money to your ISA.
Please read the

                  
Invest monthly into your choice of funds, FTSE 350 shares, selected investment trusts and exchange-traded funds (ETFs).
You can start, stop, increase and decrease your Direct Debit whenever you like. Log in to your account and choose the 'Monthly savings' tab to get started.

                
You can transfer your other ISAs to us at any time - it won't count towards your ISA allowance.
It doesn't take long to transfer and we'll take care of all the work for you.


More investment ideas
Investments can go down as well as up in value, so you could get back less than you put in. The information on this page isn’t advice – please ask us for advice if you’re not sure which investments are right for you. Tax rules for ISAs can change and their benefits depend on your circumstances.
*Average Oct-Dec 2018
Have a look at our 
Or download a 
March 2019
BEST INVESTMENT ISA 2016/17

                      
Best Stocks & Shares LISA Provider 2018

                   
0117 900 9000


Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.




Exchange Traded Funds
Exchange Traded Commodities/Currencies
Learn more about ETFs and ETCs
Based on HL client holdings, updated hourly Mon-Fri.
Market closed
Our ETF dealing charges vary depending on how often you trade. There are no inactivity fees.
Please note, charges differ for phone and postal deals, and there may be other charges, such as added spread, depending on your dealing choices. 
Some Exchange Traded Products are complex and considered higher risk, so EU regulations restrict who can invest in them. Once you've opened an account with us, you may need to complete a form before dealing ETFs to prove you're a knowledgeable investor.
You can also deal ETFs within a 
Learn how they work and what the risks are.
Deal funds and shares with free access to prices, indices, news & research on your mobile.
Find out more
0117 900 9000
Opening times
Email us
Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.




A flexible way to access your pension




Drawdown is one of the most flexible ways to access your pension, available from age 55. You can usually take up

                to 25% as a tax-free cash lump sum and keep the rest invested for later. You’re in control of how much income

                you take (which is taxable), and can make withdrawals whenever you want to. 
 You have the freedom to choose your own investments, and if they perform well you could receive a growing income

                throughout retirement. Any money left over when you die can be passed on to your loved ones, often tax free.


                Tax rules can change, and the benefits will depend on your own circumstances.

            
Take a look at our

                
Compared with other options like an

                
Investments can fall and rise in value, so your income won’t be secure, and you might get back less than you originally

                invested.

            
You'll need to think carefully about the income you’ll need when you’re older. You could run out of money if your

                investments don’t perform as you’d hoped or you take too much income too soon. 
These risks mean drawdown won’t be right for everyone, and you'll need to regularly review where you're invested

                and how much income you're taking.




Save time and money by managing all your pensions in one account: the HL SIPP. Act by 3 September and receive cashback as a thank you. 




                        Drawdown is available through our self-invested personal pension (

                        
To see what might happen to your pension value and income, you can request a

                                    
It’ll show how your chosen income withdrawals and investments could affect your pension value

                                    over time. It’ll also give you an idea of when your money might run out (or what might be

                                    left over).


If you want to find out more about drawdown with HL, you can request a transfer pack or visit

                                    our transfer page.


                                    Before transferring please check you won't lose valuable guarantees or need to pay high exit fees. If you choose to transfer

                                    your investments as they are, you won't be able to make any changes whilst the transfer goes

                                    through. If you transfer as cash you'll miss any market rises, but you won't be affected

                                    by any market falls either.

                                
















Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.




Investment trusts are funds that are publicly listed as companies on the London Stock Exchange, and so are traded like shares.
Investment trusts have a manager as well as a board of directors, who uphold the interests of the investors.
Learn more about investment trusts
Based on HL client holdings, updated hourly Mon-Fri.
The top five performing investment trusts over the last year in this sector. Past performance is not a guide to the future.
Data provided by Factset, based over the last year and updated hourly Mon-Fri.
Dominic Rowles
Henderson Smaller Companies Trust recently released its annual results to the end of May 2019. In this update, we look at how the trust performed and ...
Kate Marshall
The Board of Woodford Patient Capital Trust issued a short update this morning about the potential for a change of manager....
Kate Marshall
Sam Morse is more cautious than a lot of other managers investing in Europe. Find out what this means for the trust and how we expect it to perform....
View more investment trust research
Our dealing charges vary depending on how often you trade. There are no inactivity fees.
Please note, charges differ for phone and postal deals. 
You can trade and hold investment trusts in a choice of HL accounts.
You can also deal investment trusts within a 
New to investment trusts? Find out how they work. 
Deal funds and shares with free access to prices, indices, news & research on your mobile.
Find out more
0117 900 9000
Opening times
Email us
Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.




The portfolios are designed as a starting point, and while each fund is professionally managed, the overall responsibility for selecting and managing the portfolio rests with you. We will send you updates with our latest views on each of the component funds to help you with this.
The portfolios are not personal advice - if you're unsure whether an investment is right for you, contact us for 
We amend the number of funds according to the amount you want to invest. This helps to ensure that you have a well-diversified portfolio. Please note, this has not been tailored to your individual circumstances.
The following 
You can invest in the portfolio as it stands, but using the sliders you can tailor it to suit your needs. If you want to add additional funds, you can leave a cash weighting which can be invested as you wish.
Please note that the minimum investment into each fund is £100 lump sum or £25 per month.
The following 
You can invest in the portfolio as it stands, but using the sliders you can tailor it to suit your needs. If you want to add additional funds, you can leave a cash weighting which can be invested as you wish.
Please note that the minimum investment into each fund is £100 lump sum or £25 per month.
The following 
You can invest in the portfolio as it stands, but using the sliders you can tailor it to suit your needs. If you want to add additional funds, you can leave a cash weighting which can be invested as you wish.
Please note that the minimum investment into each fund is £100 lump sum or £25 per month.
The following 
You can invest in the portfolio as it stands, but using the sliders you can tailor it to suit your needs. If you want to add additional funds, you can leave a cash weighting which can be invested as you wish.
Please note that the minimum investment into each fund is £100 lump sum or £25 per month.
The following 
You can invest in the portfolio as it stands, but using the sliders you can tailor it to suit your needs. If you want to add additional funds, you can leave a cash weighting which can be invested as you wish.
Please note that the minimum investment into each fund is £100 lump sum or £25 per month.
The following 
You can invest in the portfolio as it stands, but using the sliders you can tailor it to suit your needs. If you want to add additional funds, you can leave a cash weighting which can be invested as you wish.
Please note that the minimum investment into each fund is £100 lump sum or £25 per month.
The following 
You can invest in the portfolio as it stands, but using the sliders you can tailor it to suit your needs. If you want to add additional funds, you can leave a cash weighting which can be invested as you wish.
Please note that the minimum investment into each fund is £100 lump sum or £25 per month.
The following 
You can invest in the portfolio as it stands, but using the sliders you can tailor it to suit your needs. If you want to add additional funds, you can leave a cash weighting which can be invested as you wish.
Please note that the minimum investment into each fund is £100 lump sum or £25 per month.
The following 
You can invest in the portfolio as it stands, but using the sliders you can tailor it to suit your needs. If you want to add additional funds, you can leave a cash weighting which can be invested as you wish.
Please note that the minimum investment into each fund is £100 lump sum or £25 per month.
The following 
You can invest in the portfolio as it stands, but using the sliders you can tailor it to suit your needs. If you want to add additional funds, you can leave a cash weighting which can be invested as you wish.
Please note that the minimum investment into each fund is £100 lump sum or £25 per month.
The following 
You can invest in the portfolio as it stands, but using the sliders you can tailor it to suit your needs. If you want to add additional funds, you can leave a cash weighting which can be invested as you wish.
Please note that the minimum investment into each fund is £100 lump sum or £25 per month.
The following 
You can invest in the portfolio as it stands, but using the sliders you can tailor it to suit your needs. If you want to add additional funds, you can leave a cash weighting which can be invested as you wish.
Please note that the minimum investment into each fund is £100 lump sum or £25 per month.
The following 
You can invest in the portfolio as it stands, but using the sliders you can tailor it to suit your needs. If you want to add additional funds, you can leave a cash weighting which can be invested as you wish.
Please note that the minimum investment into each fund is £100 lump sum or £25 per month.
The following 
You can invest in the portfolio as it stands, but using the sliders you can tailor it to suit your needs. If you want to add additional funds, you can leave a cash weighting which can be invested as you wish.
Please note that the minimum investment into each fund is £100 lump sum or £25 per month.
The following 
You can invest in the portfolio as it stands, but using the sliders you can tailor it to suit your needs. If you want to add additional funds, you can leave a cash weighting which can be invested as you wish.
Please note that the minimum investment into each fund is £100 lump sum or £25 per month.
Please note there is a tiered annual charge to hold funds in our service with a maximum of 0.45% per annum. 
HL Multi-Manager Income & Growth includes an underlying holding in Woodford Equity Income, in which dealing is currently suspended. The Multi-Manager fund continues to trade as normal.
HL funds are managed by our sister company HL Fund Managers.
Invest in this portfolio
Edit


Edit
 Print this portfolio
The maximum you can invest into an ISA in this tax year is £20,000.
Award-winning pension with wide investment choice.
Invest in a SIPP
Invest outside an ISA or pension with no investment limits.
Invest in an account
Log in to invest in an existing account.
Log in to my account
Invest outside an ISA or pension with no investment limits.
Invest in an account
Log in to invest in an existing account.
Log in to my account
Easy-to-manage investment account set up on behalf of a child.
Request a form
Make an early start on your child's long-term financial plan.
Invest in a SIPP
Log in to invest in an existing account.
Log in to my account
Log in to invest in an existing account.
Log in to my account
Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.






Important information:
Do you wish you’d started saving into your pension earlier? A Junior SIPP (Self-Invested Personal Pension) could give a child a substantial head start in saving for their future.


Invest up to 




Investments in a pension are free from UK income and capital gains taxes. Remember tax rules can change and benefits depend on personal circumstances.


Gifts to a child’s pension are often covered by one of the inheritance tax exemptions and so could fall outside your estate for inheritance tax purposes. If you are unsure a pension is right for you or your child, please seek  


Money in a Junior SIPP cannot currently be accessed until age 55 (57 from 2028) so you are investing for your child's long-term future.


Remember that although a Junior SIPP is for your child’s long-term future, investments can fall in value as well as rise. Also tax rules and benefits are likely to change between now and the time a child reaches retirement age. 




It's easy to manage your child's account online or via 




Get started with our 


We’ve been voted ‘Best SIPP Provider’ by readers of What Investment for the last ten years running. We’re committed to ensuring our SIPP delivers an award-winning service for years to come. 


What’s more, family and friends can 
A Junior SIPP can be opened by completing our simple application form. If your child is over 16 they will need to sign the application, otherwise it will need to be signed by a parent or legal guardian. You must also complete a Legal Guardian form if they are under 18.
Using the form you can set up a monthly direct debit, make a lump sum contribution by cheque or transfer an existing pension – or any combination of these. Before opening an account for a child, see our 




0117 980 9926
View opening times
Email us
Read our SIPP FAQs
See an illustration of how much your child’s pension could be worth in the future.
Junior SIPP Calculator
Mr Meekin chose our Junior SIPP to help build nest eggs for his sons’ futures.
Read his story
Mark Meekin (54), is a married father-of-two from Derby. A few years ago he set up pensions for his sons Daniel (15) and Matthew (17).
I believe it will get harder to save for a pension in the future. Everything is getting more expensive – for instance property prices – so as adults they’ll have less disposable cash to put away. I believe it’s more important than ever to start early where pensions are concerned. It also means I can continue to contribute over the long-term. That’s important to me as a parent – it’s about trying to look after my sons.
We chose a Junior SIPP for a couple of reasons. The first is simple maths. The earlier you start, the more impact it has on the pension pot – it has longer to grow, especially when you take into account the impact of compound interest. As you can’t access the interest or income in a pension, it simply adds to the value of the fund, so for my sons that’s currently over 40 years of growth on top of growth. There’s also the tax relief. 
I also want to demonstrate to them the importance of having a pension. As teenagers, it’s probably not at the forefront of their minds. For me as a parent it’s a good thing to be able to teach them about it. And as they can’t get at the funds, it avoids temptation.
The material on the HL website is really useful for helping me decide where to invest. I’m taking a long-term view – after all, their pensions have 40 years to grow. 






Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.




Intelligent investing made simple with Portfolio+


Important information
Looking to invest, but prefer our experts to choose and manage the investments? Then Portfolio+ could be for you.
Our six ready-made portfolios invest in a broad mix of assets across a range of countries and regions – helping to dilute risk while improving the chances of investing in the right places.
Portfolio+ offers simplicity, performance potential and a low minimum investment of £1,000. While the portfolios can be sold at any time, free of charge, they should only be bought as long-term investments.
Choose your portfolio
Simply choose an existing account or open a new account, select whether you're investing for income or growth, and the level of risk you're comfortable with.
All six portfolios consist of a number of HL Multi-Manager funds, which are managed on a daily basis. The HL Multi-Manager funds invest in a selection of our favourite funds within a sector, benefitting from instant diversification – by holding just a couple of multi-manager funds you will immediately be invested in 20, 30 or even 40 underlying funds and, consequently, the assets those funds hold.
Lee Gardhouse, Chief Investment Officer, explains how the portfolios are built
Our featured portfolios are designed by our investment team to help you choose your investment approach. And it’s easy to do. 
If you'd prefer to build and manage your own portfolio from our favourite funds you may be interested in our Master Portfolios.
View Master Portfolios
If you would like financial advice tailored to your personal situation we can help. Our team of fully qualified financial advisers offer both telephone and face-to-face advice.
More about financial advice
Yes, you can view all the factsheets below. Each factsheet provides further information on the portfolio, recent performance and asset allocation. 
The factsheets show the HL Multi-Manager Funds which are used to build the portfolio. Our Multi-Manager Funds invest in funds from leading companies. These underlying funds are shown on the factsheet.
Conservative Growth portfolio factsheet
Balanced Growth portfolio factsheet
Adventurous Growth portfolio factsheet
Conservative Income portfolio factsheet
Balanced Income portfolio factsheet
Adventurous Income portfolio factsheet
Only the standard HL account charges and those of the underlying funds. There are no additional charges for HL Portfolio+ and no charge to rebalance the holdings.
The HL account charge is an administration charge to hold funds with HL. Our charge is tiered within bands and will be 0.45% per annum on the first £250,000 of funds within each HL account, 0.25% per annum on the value of funds between £250,000 and £1m, 0.1% per annum on the value of funds between £1m and £2m, and no charge on the value of funds over £2m.
Like any fund, each HL Multi-Manager fund has an 
Please note
You can invest in Portfolio+ within any of the following accounts: Stocks and Shares ISA, Junior Stocks and Shares ISA, SIPP, Drawdown, Junior SIPP, Fund and Share Account and HL Group SIPP.
You must be aged 18 or over to invest, with the exceptions of the SIPP, Junior SIPP or Junior Stocks and Shares ISA, where people aged less than 18 can invest with their guardian's approval.
Please note that Portfolio+ is not currently available within the Lifetime ISA.
Yes – you can transfer an ISA, pension, or unwrapped funds and shares to Hargreaves Lansdown and invest in the portfolio of your choice. You can instruct the transfer by completing one of our 
If you hold Portfolio+ within an ISA or a SIPP:
You do not have to pay income tax on any income or capital gains tax on any disposals.
If you hold Portfolio+ in a Fund and Share Account:
Income: Income on the holdings (such as dividends and interest) is received gross but will be subject to income tax. Income rolled up into your accumulation units is also taxable. This income, broken down into dividends and interest, will be shown on the Consolidated Tax Certificate that accompanies the Spring Investment Report. You can use this information in completing your tax return, where applicable.
Capital gains tax: Capital gains tax may be due on any disposals. This will depend on the amount of gain, and whether or not you have disposed of any other chargeable assets in the same tax year. Disposals may include, but are not limited to: sales of units (both where you sell holdings, or sales to raise funds to settle fees), sales for the purpose of rebalancing the portfolio biannually, transfers to others and gifts.
You should note that the above is guidance only and you should seek specialist tax advice from an accountant or tax adviser if you are unclear. You are responsible for ensuring that you correctly report and pay tax on your income or gains.
Rebalancing involves selling a little of what has done well, and reinvesting elsewhere – to help keep the portfolio on track to achieve its pre-determined objectives.
Left unchecked a portfolio will naturally increase exposure to the area that is performing best over any one period of time. This can have two negative impacts.
The risk in the portfolio can tilt (for instance an ever increasing exposure to equities if they outperform fixed interest/bonds) meaning that an investor could end up with more or less exposure to the areas of the market than was originally set.
Investment is cyclical in nature and asset types (shares, bonds etc.) come in and out of favour as do investment styles (high yield shares have historically performed well in tougher market environments but have lagged in periods of explosive market performance).
A portfolio that is not rebalanced risks having maximum exposure to a style or area of investment just before it falls out of favour and minimum exposure just before it comes back into favour. Regular re-balancing helps investors to take advantage of the ebb and flow of investment fashion. Given the low cost of rebalancing it makes sense to keep portfolios in line with the investors' chosen mix of assets and associated risks.
It takes less than 10 minutes to set up a portfolio.
Choose your portfolio
MR THURLING, Loughborough
Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.




Invest for your child's future, free from UK tax
Invest for your child's future, free from UK tax




A Junior Stocks and Shares ISA is a tax-efficient investment account for children under 18.
 Any parent or legal guardian can start an HL Junior ISA for their child, and even family and friends can add

            money as well.


            When your child turns 18 they will get access to the money - it could help give them a head start on

            university fees, their first home or a future nest egg.
Each tax year (6 April to 5 April) there’s a limited amount of money you can put in a Junior ISA.
This tax year the Junior ISA allowance is

            
Tax rules for ISAs can change and their benefits depend on individual circumstances.
The annual charge for holding investments in an HL Junior ISA is never more than 0.45%. Your dealing and

            other charges will depend on the investments you choose. 


Once you've decided to open a Junior ISA, it takes less than five minutes to get started. You'll just

                    need a

                    


                                    Your child is eligible if they're a UK resident, under 18 and don't already have a

                                    Junior Stocks and Shares ISA or Child Trust Fund. If they do, you'd need to transfer

                                    instead.

                                
You can open an account from 
If your child already has a Child Trust Fund or Junior ISA, it's easy to transfer to

                                    an HL Junior ISA.



                                
With an HL Junior Stocks and Shares ISA, you can choose investments for your child.


Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites





Newsroom articles are published by leading news agencies.
Hargreaves Lansdown is not responsible for an article's content and its accuracy. We may not share the views of the author.




Buy and sell hundreds of corporate bonds, gilts and PIBS

 
View bond and gilt prices
When you buy a 
 
Most bonds, gilts and PIBS can only be dealt over the phone. Our phone dealing charge is 1% (£20 minimum, £50 maximum). Some bonds can be dealt online, and will be charged at our normal share dealing rates. 
You can deal bonds and gilts in a choice of HL accounts. Once you have an account and are familiar with bonds and gilts, call us on 
Bonds may not be suitable for all investors and neither income nor capital is guaranteed. If you are unsure of the suitability of an investment for your circumstances please seek personal advice.
Find out more
Find out more
You can also deal bonds & gilts within a 
Learn about types of bonds and how they work.
0117 900 9000
View opening times
Email us
Deal funds and shares with free access to prices, indices, news & research on your mobile.
Find out more
Important information
Useful information
Popular services
Online access
Other websites



After a turbulent May, China and emerging markets appear poised to resume their ascent from the first quarter, even as trade-related air pockets remain likely.
The spring exodus of investors from emerging market equities has spilled over into summer, as the U.S.-China trade conflict intensified and U.S. President Donald Trump briefly threatened to wield his tariff stick against Mexico. Investor anxiety is understandable, as “the trade friction undercuts growth in world trade volumes and delays investment decisions,” says Thornburg portfolio manager Charlie Wilson. “And that, in turn, compounds concerns about ebbing global economic growth.”
But those fleeing developing country assets would do well to consider the signals coming from monetary authorities in the U.S., China and elsewhere. Moreover, on both valuation and political risk metrics in a number of major emerging markets, the asset class remains compelling.
The Trump administration’s threats to raise the tariffs already in place on Chinese exports to the U.S., along with the short-lived warning of new taxes on imports from Mexico if it doesn’t do more to control undocumented migrants heading for its border with the U.S., has shaken investors. In May $7.4 billion flowed out of Chinese equities and another $7.2 billion exited other emerging market stocks, making for the biggest monthly outflow since June 2013, according to the Institute of International Finance. Meanwhile, Bank of America Merrill Lynch reports that in the week to June 5, another $2.1 billion fled emerging market equities funds.
Wilson, who runs strategies focused on emerging markets, and fellow Thornburg portfolio manager Lei Wang, whose strategies are international and can include developing countries, just returned from separate visits with numerous corporate executives in China. In addition to updates on current portfolio holdings and deep dives into prospective investments, they were able to survey the effectiveness of Beijing’s stimulus efforts, which Wilson had detailed in his 
Q: 
CW:
By early January, Fed Chairman Jerome Powell effectively made clear the Fed would pause its hiking cycle and also suggested its balance sheet contraction wasn’t on “autopilot.” It also seemed that a resolution of the U.S.-China trade conflict was near, lifting sentiment and risk assets globally. That reversed in May, when the trade negotiations broke down and U.S. economic data started showing signs of weakness. The May labor market report came in much weaker than forecast, driving up market expectations that the Fed would cut rates at least once this year. Dovish comments from a handful of Fed officials also boosted hopes that U.S. monetary easing is on the way, which explains the pop in risk assets earlier this month. A more accommodative Fed reduces the dollar headwind that tends to mask strong emerging market earnings in local currency terms and allows developing country central banks to gradually ease their own monetary policies amid generally tepid inflation.
Q:
LW:
There are also the stimulus efforts. China’s central bank has eased policy on a number of fronts, from interest rates to lower bank reserve requirements. And the government has also lowered taxes, corporate pension contributions and introduced more export rebates for companies affected by the trade dispute. Still, investments focused on the Chinese consumer should prove more resilient to trade disruptions. Forward earnings estimates on many of them reflect double-digit earnings growth in dollar terms, and valuations aren’t overly demanding. But as Chinese stocks have had a good run overall it’s important to be selective and pick your shots carefully. The rally earlier this year was helpful, but so was the retreat in May, given the opportunities to get back into select stocks at better price points. We’ve trimmed our portfolio weighting to China, but still have meaningful exposure to Chinese stocks.
CW: 
That’s especially true now that the dollar strength of the last few years looks likely to lift with the Fed making more accommodative noises and Fed funds futures pricing in a couple rate cuts before year end. And that’s given cover for central banks in India, the Philippines, Australia and New Zealand to cut their benchmark rates.
LW: 
Q:
CW: 
LW:



          custom text        


Thank you for your comments!
Subscribe now to stay up-to-date with Thornburg’s Blogs
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

Home
The Thornburg Investment Income Builder Fund paid an ordinary quarterly dividend of $0.229 per I share in the quarter ending June 30, 2019. This compares to a dividend of $0.216 for the comparable quarter of 2018. The fund paid $0.985 per I share in the 12-month period ending June 30, 2019, down 2.5% from $1.01 in the comparable prior year period. The dividend per share was lower for A and C shares, to account for varying class specific expenses.
The fund’s net asset value increased by $0.31 per share ($21.42 to $21.73) during the June quarter. For the trailing 12 months ending June 30, 2019, the fund’s net asset value increased by $0.40 per share ($21.33 to $21.73).
Investment Income Builder’s I share returns of 2.53% for the June quarter trailed its blended benchmark (75% MSCI World Index and 25% Bloomberg Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index), which returned 3.87% for the quarter. The fund’s 6.69% total return for the year ending June 30, 2019, trailed the blended benchmark return of 7.02% for the 12-month period. Performance comparisons of Investment Income Builder to its blended benchmark over various periods are shown on the
The quarter ending June 30, 2019, was the 66th full calendar quarter since the inception of Thornburg Investment Income Builder Fund in December 2002. In 49 of these quarters the fund delivered a positive total return. The fund has delivered positive total returns in 13 of its 16 calendar years of existence. As of June 30, 2019, Thornburg Investment Income Builder Fund has delivered tax efficient average annual total returns of more than 9% since its inception.
Dividend increases from a majority of your fund’s equity portfolio holdings did not quite offset the headwinds of (i) a stronger currency that reduced the year over year U.S. dollar value of dividends paid in foreign currencies and (ii) The fourth quarter 2018 special dividend paid by top holding CME Group was lower than CME’s fourth quarter 2017 special dividend. We cannot predict how currency fluctuations will impact your fund’s 2019 dividend, but we do expect annual dividend growth in local currencies this year for a majority of your fund’s equity investments.
In assessing the second-quarter 2019 performance of Thornburg Investment Income Builder, it is constructive to consider the performance in U.S. dollars of the sector components of the MSCI World Index over the three-month period. The MSCI World Index comprises 75%, and the entire equity portion, of the fund’s global performance benchmark:
Investment Income Builder’s bond holdings delivered positive returns during the June quarter. Both U.S. government bond prices and corporate bond prices rose, as we detail later in this note.
Your fund’s average return from its investments in the financial sector was positive in second quarter 2019 and outperformed the equities in the finance sector of the MSCI World Index for the quarter. CME Group was one of the strongest performers in the portfolio, recovering from a weak March quarter even as expectations for future interest rate volatility and consequent need for hedging activity receded. JPMorgan Chase, Apollo Investment Corporation, Ares Capital Corporation, and Axa Equitable Holdings were strong performers in the quarter. Most of your fund’s other holdings in the financial sector were positive for the quarter, other than Italy’s Intesa Sanpaolo. In general, earnings and portfolio credit quality for these firms are holding up better than feared late last year.
Your fund’s significant holdings in the communications services sector delivered mixed performances, lagging the performance of the equities in this sector of the MSCI World Index. England’s BT Group, multi-national network operator Vodafone and China Mobile each delivered negative June quarter returns. Deutsche Telekom, African multi- national MTN Group, and U.S. network operator AT&T each made positive contributions to Income Builder performance in the June quarter. Deutsche Telekom is the controlling shareholder of the third-largest U.S. mobile network operator, T-Mobile, which contributes approximately half of Group operating profit. T-Mobile has made frequent headlines in recent quarters as a result of its pending merger with Sprint, the fourth largest U.S. mobile communications network operator.
The entire energy sector was influenced down by the 35% drop in the Brent oil price to $53.80 during the December 2018 quarter. While the Brent oil price rallied 25% in the first quarter of 2019, it dropped another 5% in the June quarter. Royal Dutch Shell and Total each delivered significant contributions to portfolio performance, while Spanish refiner Repsol and Chinese refining and marketing giant Sinopec each detracted from performance. For perspective on the June 30, 2019, benchmark oil price of $64.74/barrel, the average Brent oil price fell from approximately $115/barrel in June 2014 to a January 2016 low of $28/barrel. We expect volatile oil prices to persist. Demand fundamentals appear positive for the sector, following a global consumption increase of more than one million barrels per day in 2018 that shows signs of repeating this year. Our investments in this sector are focused on resilient dividend payors with strong balance sheets. Business prospects for these firms appear sound within recent ranges for oil and gas prices.
Income Builder’s investments in the technology sector delivered positive returns in the June quarter, led by a strong contribution from Qualcomm following a favorable settlement of its long running litigation with Apple. Trade tensions, patent disputes and evolving consumer preferences created uncertainty around the near-term outlook for device sales and optimizing the geographic spread of component manufacturing networks. Among Income Builder portfolio holdings, diversified semiconductor designer Broadcom appears caught in the trade dispute crossfire. We expect most of your fund’s technology sector firms to benefit from the ongoing proliferation of “connected” digital devices and associated data flows since these firms hold important positions in the value chain for producing the devices as well as data transmission and storage capability.
Investment Income Builder’s second quarter 2019 returns from its holdings in the health care sector significantly outperformed the return of this sector within the MSCI index. Novartis, and its spinoff of U.S. eyecare specialist Alcon, drove a strong positive contribution to portfolio performance. There were no significant negative contributors to June quarter portfolio performance from the health care sector.
Income Builder’s investments in the Industrials sector delivered strongly positive returns in the June quarter, further reversing late 2018 weakness from this group. European toll-road operators Atlantia and Vinci, Spanish airport operator AENA, and German conglomerate Siemens each made significant positive contributions to portfolio performance. There were no significant negative contributors to June quarter portfolio performance from the industrials sector.
Among other portfolio holdings, notable contributors to June quarter portfolio performance included U.S. outdoor advertiser Outfront Media, Home Depot, mine operator Norilsk Nickel and Italy-based multi-national electric utility Enel SpA. Detractors from portfolio performance included Électricité de France, diversified miner and commodities trader Glencore, Korea Tobacco & Ginseng and Walgreens Boots Alliance. Walgreen’s share price has been much more volatile than its business result in recent quarters, as speculation about a changing competitive landscape and regulatory intervention in the pharmaceutical value chain periodically overwhelms the positives of a greater-than 9% 2018 dividend increase and a share count that is down more than 13% over the last four years.
A stronger U.S. dollar decreased the year-over-year dollar value of our non- U.S. assets during the quarter by an overall average of approximately minus 5%. This trend reversed modestly in the second quarter, as the trade-weighted U.S. dollar declined in value quarter-to-quarter by just over 1%. We hedged a majority of the currency exposure of our asset positions denominated in the Australian dollar, the British pound, the euro, the Chinese yuan and the Swiss franc. These hedges subtracted modestly from the relative performance of Thornburg Investment Income Builder during the quarter, since benchmark indices are not hedged, and the U.S. dollar weakened slightly. We are more focused on risk control than on reaping possible currency gains from exposure to assets denominated in these currencies, however, we believe increasing U.S. government fiscal and trade deficits could create conditions that would lead us to reduce hedges if these deficits persist.
Bond prices appreciated significantly again in the second quarter. The U.S. Federal Reserve guided down forward interest rate expectations, and inflation measures around the world were low enough to give other central banks room to continue easy money policies.
Readers of this commentary who are long-time shareholders of Income Builder will recall that the interest-bearing debt portion of the fund’s portfolio has varied over time, ranging from less than 9% in 2015 to 45% at June 30, 2009.
The table below compares the dividend yields for the equities of the 10 largest investments held in the Income Builder portfolio with the current marketable debt yields of specific bonds issued by the same firms as of June 30. Nine of the 10 firms shown below have issued marketable debt. For eight of these nine debt issuers, the dividend yields on their stocks exceed their debt yields by differentials ranging from 5.45% (Royal Dutch Shell) to 0.19% (JPMorgan Chase).
As of June 30, the fund portfolio included more than 85 bonds and hybrid securities. In recent years, the reduced yields available from bond investments have posed a meaningful headwind to delivering year-over-year dividend increases on Investment Income Builder shares.
Today, investors debate the future direction of the economies of China, Europe, various emerging markets and the U.S. They consider potential policy actions by the U.S. Federal Reserve, Congress, the Trump administration and foreign government regulatory and policy actions. Concerns about tariffs and trade policy changes continue to impact share price movements of global producers of tradeable goods, which are volatile day-to-day. Most economic data tracking business expectations of manufacturers around the world are indicating slowing growth. We expect the volatility to continue until new trade policies are established.
We believe that people around the world will continue to buy goods and services and trade with each other. Importantly, overall global consumer spending grew in 2018 and appears poised to grow in 2019, along with global population, industrial production, and digital communications. Despite uncertainty around macro- economic policies and expectations for slowing economic growth in 2019 and beyond, employment and wage growth trends remain positive, consumer debt is under control, and many governments around the world, other than the U.S., have room to implement expansionary fiscal policies.
Most firms held in Thornburg Investment Income Builder’s portfolio delivered positive year-over-year earnings in 2018, even as the U.S. Federal Reserve hiked the Federal funds target rate to 2.50%, roughly in line with year-over-year average consumer price inflation measures last year. Most major central banks around the world continue to pursue very easy monetary conditions, which artificially suppress interest rates and support prices of financial assets.
While low interest rates are good news for borrowers, they have negative consequences for conservative savers. Interest income as a percentage of the aggregate adjusted gross income of U.S. households fell from 4% in 2007 to less than 2% in 2016, according to Statistics of Income published by the Internal Revenue Service.
Investors must consider other options. Banks in the U.S. offer below-inflation yields on most deposits. A very large pool of investor dollars is looking for better returns elsewhere, but in sensible investments. We are optimistic that the types of income-producing investments owned by the Thornburg Investment Income Builder Fund will experience sustainable popularity among investors as their intrinsic values for income production are recognized. A high percentage of investor funds belong to people over the age of 55, for whom income is an increasingly necessary and desirable attribute.
Performance data shown represents past performance and is no guarantee of future results. Investment return and principal value will fluctuate so shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost. Current performance may be lower or higher than quoted. For performance current to the most recent month end, see the 
30-day SEC Yield as of 6/31/19 – A Shares: 3.01%; I Shares: 3.40%.
In an era of low interest rates, the right equity dividend strategy can provide the income and total return that investors seek.
The Fed is poised to join the global easing bandwagon, fueling a surge in risk asset prices. As market distortions from easy money grow, so does the importance of security selection and portfolio allocation.
Globally Diversified Income Brochure
When rates rise, many fixed income and dividend portfolios suffer. That’s why you need to include allocations to investment strategies that can do well during periods of rising rates – like today.
Investment Income Builder Fund, Dividends Matter.
Unless otherwise noted, the source of all data, charts, tables and graphs is Thornburg Investment Management, Inc., as of 6/30/19.
Prior to inception of class I shares, performance is calculated from actual returns of the class A shares adjusted for the lower Institutional expenses.
Investments carry risks, including possible loss of principal.  Additional risks may be associated with investments outside the United States, especially in emerging markets, including currency fluctuations, illiquidity, volatility, and political and economic risks.  Investments in small- and mid-capitalization companies may increase the risk of greater price fluctuations. Investments in the Fund are not FDIC insured, nor are they bank deposits or guaranteed by a bank or any other entity.
The views expressed are subject to change and do not necessarily reflect the views of Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. This information should not be relied upon as a recommendation or investment advice and is not intended to predict the performance of any investment or market.
Any securities, sectors, or countries mentioned are for illustration purposes only. Holdings are subject to change. Under no circumstances does the information contained within represent a recommendation to buy or sell any security.
Neither the payment of, or increase in, dividends is guaranteed.
The performance of any index is not indicative of the performance of any particular investment. Unless otherwise noted, index returns reflect the reinvestment of income dividends and capital gains, if any, but do not reflect fees, brokerage commissions or other expenses of investing. Investors may not make direct investments into any index.
There is no guarantee that the Fund will meet its investment objectives.
Please see our  
Thornburg mutual funds are distributed by Thornburg Securities Corporation.
Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. mutual funds are sold through investment professionals including investment advisors, brokerage firms, bank trust departments, trust companies and certain other financial intermediaries. Thornburg Securities Corporation (TSC) does not act as broker of record for investors.
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

As downward pressure on negative bond yields builds, a flexible approach helps in the search for attractive, relative values.
In 
A real-world example can illustrate nicely, particularly at a time when market expectations of monetary easing have quickly enveloped the U.S. Federal Reserve, European Central Bank officials have declared readiness to resume asset purchases or slash rates even deeper, and half a dozen other central banks in Asia have already cut them.
Across the ratings spectrum, corporate credit spreads have compressed sharply. The amount of negative-yielding debt in JPMorgan’s Global Aggregate Bond Index jumped from 18% last October to roughly 25% at the end of March; European sovereign debt sporting sub-zero yields accounted for nearly 40% of Eurozone indices.
That certainly doesn’t make it easy for passive bond funds, “which have to buy formulaically, no matter the yield,” notes Thornburg Chief Investment Officer Brian McMahon. “If the index is X% German government bonds, which carry negative yields out to about 15 years, they need to be that percentage, too, whether they like the yields or not.” In a 
A flexible, benchmark agnostic approach can take many forms, particularly in hybrid stock/bond strategies that can invest all along a firm’s capital structure. For example, U.S. pipeline companies sold off with energy prices in mid-2014. Slews of “Master Limited Partnerships” subsequently cut their dividends. Switching from their equity to their debt instruments made for a fruitful trade.
“Dividend cuts are always a bad thing if you’re a stockholder but quite a good thing if you’re a bondholder because more cash will be allocated to shoring up credit characteristics,” McMahon says. “Over the years, we’ve seen that dividend cuts are often a signal to buy the bonds of a company that appears to be prioritizing upgrading its credit quality. That’s because it usually comes at a time when investors are questioning the company’s credit quality and its yields are high, at least relative to where they could be if the firm would just allocate more cash to debt servicing. We like to buy bonds of companies that come to that crossroads, and decide they’re going to repair their credit ratings and remove doubts about their credit worthiness.”
Much of the bond universe has become pricey, with negative real rates prevailing in much of the world. Yet inflows into bond funds continue to surge. The week to June 5 marked “the biggest inflows to investment grade bond funds ever,” at $12.3 billion, while government bond funds saw the second largest inflows ever,” at $8.9 billion, Bank of America/Merrill Lynch reported.
“Markets face issues involving market segmentation, home bias, and central bank intervention,” Kirby says. “All of which results in relative value discrepancies, which create opportunities for investors able to navigate between them.”
1. 



          custom text        


Thank you for your comments!
Subscribe now to stay up-to-date with Thornburg’s Blogs
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

Home
We work hard to invest in a balanced portfolio and have a large component of stable and consistent businesses, but we do tend to own less “expensive defensives” than the overall market.
2nd Quarter 2019
The two most interesting things we see today are the wild outperformance of low volatility stocks, especially over the last year, and the associated underperformance of value stocks.
2nd Quarter 2019
Through our repeatable bottom-up process that relies on deep fundamental research, we are, even in this environment, finding opportunities to deploy capital into businesses with franchise characteristics and durable growth drivers.
2nd Quarter 2019
Global equity markets continued their 2019 advance in the second quarter but May witnessed the first material market drawdown of the year, triggered by renewed trade friction between the U.S. and China and related concerns about global growth.
2nd Quarter 2019
We believe dispersion in equity returns and valuations across regions and sectors—such as we’ve seen recently—will present more opportunities ahead for our investment framework.
2nd Quarter 2019
In light of tight spreads, weakening corporate and consumer fundamentals, and a slowing global economic environment, we remain defensively positioned.
2nd Quarter 2019
Through our repeatable bottom-up process that relies on deep fundamental research, we are, even in this environment, finding opportunities to deploy capital into businesses with franchise characteristics and durable growth drivers that can deliver compelling risk-adjusted returns over time.
2nd Quarter 2019
Although recent macroeconomic conditions have been challenging within many emerging markets, we believe their prospects are improving and are excited about the near-term prospects for our holdings.
2nd Quarter 2019
Given our skeptical view on the Fed and its motives, the duration of the portfolio has remained constant through much of the second quarter as we have focused more on diversifying the portfolio to weather many economic outcomes.
2nd Quarter 2019
With the promise of a resumption of trade negotiations between China and the U.S. after the G-20 Summit, markets rebounded in June and finished positively for the quarter.
2nd Quarter 2019
The municipal bond market is changing. Investors just haven’t realized yet. In our minds, it has led to a mispricing of risk broadly. As such, we are running portfolios more conservatively. Mindful of the fact that when price and fundamental value diverge, there tends to be a reckoning.
2nd Quarter 2019
While demographic trends continue to drive increased appetite for income-producing vehicles, global central bank policy continues to distort the relationship between stock and bond yields.
2nd Quarter 2019
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

Home
During the second quarter of 2019, the Thornburg Strategic Income Fund returned 2.13%, underperforming both the 3.11% gain in the Bloomberg Barclays U.S. Universal Index and the 3.34% gain of the blended benchmark. While we certainly don’t dismiss the quarterly underperformance of the fund, we maintain our focus on delivering superior returns over longer periods. Over the last decade, the fund has returned 7.31% on an annualized basis versus 4.37% and 5.39% for the benchmarks respectively.
We remain skeptical about the U.S. Federal Reserve’s actions and motives. It seems policy decisions are no longer driven by economic fundamentals, but instead by market movements. In many instances, asset prices are widely disconnected from their fundamentals. What has gone from a tacit inference that the Fed will prop up swooning financial markets—the Greenspan, Bernanke and Yellen “puts”—has become more explicit under current Fed Chairman Jerome Powell, as he speaks increasingly openly about financial conditions and stability as part of the Fed’s decision-making process. A financial asset’s price should reflect more of its individual fundamentals and less of the tidal effect of Fed policy.
It now appears highly likely that market sentiment hinges on a 25-basis-point cut in the Fed’s key policy rate this month, not on the overall condition of the U.S. economy, which is in decent shape despite bearish headlines on trade and global growth. It is hard to imagine a quarter- point reduction in the Federal funds rate either helps or hurts the broader U.S. economy. It is, however, easier to imagine a century-old institution undercutting its credibility by seemingly allowing itself to be bullied by markets.
To be sure, some economic data have been weakening in the U.S. and abroad. The global Purchasing Managers’ Index is down a record 14 months in a row and has recently moved into contractionary territory. The U.S itself is also sitting on the precipice on some leading indicators. The most recent ISM New Orders Index came in at 50.0, the exact number that defines the difference between contraction and expansion. Yet strong U.S. labor force growth and a supportive capex cycle are driving productivity gains. And while wage growth has leveled off lately, consumer sentiment and balance sheets remain relatively healthy.
It’s important to note that slowing global growth has prompted many central banks, not just the Federal Reserve, to move toward monetary accommodation. A number of central banks have already cut their key rates or provided guidance suggesting an easing bias. Some countries are pushing macro-prudential measures or fiscal stimulus. The European Central Bank recently extended forward guidance, as did the Bank of Japan, suggesting their respective policy rates will remain exceedingly low for quite some time. Others, such as the Reserve Bank of Australia, lowered rates due to concerns about slowing growth.
While the economic backdrop is important for fixed income investors, it’s also crucial to look at both corporate and consumer health as leading indicators for the economy. Corporate fundamentals slipped a bit in the first quarter of 2019, as growth in revenue and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization were roughly flat, with the trend continuing in the second quarter. One important area of concern in the corporate market is leverage and interest coverage. While we are at or near all-time highs in terms of leverage, it is in a very different market than we experienced a decade ago. What we find disconcerting is not the sheer amount of leverage in the system but how stretched the fundamentals become when one factors in a slowing growth environment. This will surely cause problems for those who have thrown caution to the wind and indiscriminately bought credit at current levels.
For example, U.S. High Yield bonds continued their stellar performance in the second quarter and ended the first half 2019 up 9.85%. High yield continue to benefit from the Fed’s dovish pivot and market expectations for an insurance- related cut of 25 basis points. With yields and spreads continually compressed, investors should consider taking some risk off the table as historic measures continue to indicate complacency amongst investors.
Along with a decline in corporate fundamentals, consumer fundamentals have deteriorated, albeit much more modestly. The consumer is seeing increasing debt-to-income ratios as credit card rates are at a decade high. As expected, there has also been an uptick in delinquencies and losses. Despite these metrics, we continue to believe the consumer is on solid footing, bolstered by the tight labor market.
The strength of the consumer has led us to opportunities in the consumer loan asset-backed security (ABS) sector. Often issued by online credit providers, with proceeds used by credit-worthy borrowers for credit card refinancing or home improvement loans, the structures offer several attractive features. The credit profile of the bonds improves dramatically every six months through an amortization process. The bonds offer an attractive spread to other shorter-duration bonds that quickly deleverage. Lastly, the shorter history for online lending allows for pricing inefficiencies, providing us the opportunity to purchase issues that create a wide margin for error.
And margin for error is all the more important given the backdrop of interest rates. For much of the second quarter, rates have been in a free fall as the two-year U.S. Treasury has dropped from 2.41% in mid April to 1.75% by the end of June. While the decrease in rates has generated a boon in fixed income prices, the lower yields have created a less appealing environment for the marginal dollar being invested. More importantly, total return has been driven by price appreciation despite all that has been said about the decline in fundamentals. Factoring in credit spreads, which have fallen precipitously throughout much of the year, the margin of safety is narrow by all measures.
In light of tight spreads, weakening corporate and consumer fundamentals, and a slowing global economic environment, we remain defensively positioned. We continue to reduce corporate risk and move into short, senior tranches of ABS and residential mortgage-backed securities, where spreads have widened and offer a larger margin of safety. Given our skeptical view on the Fed and its motives, the duration of the portfolio has remained constant through much of the second quarter as we have focused more on diversifying the portfolio to weather many economic outcomes.
We continue to believe caution in the corporate sector, both within investment grade and high yield, is warranted. At this stage of the credit cycle, individual security selection across industries, credit quality, maturities and region are likely to be key drivers of future returns. We believe our unique approach and structure offers our investors an edge in this strange and tumultuous environment. Over time, we rely on our results to bear this out. On a three-year rolling basis over the life of the fund, we’ve managed to outperform both the Morningstar Multisector Bond category and Nontraditional Bond Category 100% of the time, a period that included several different market episodes, both risk on and risk off.
Thank you for investing alongside us in the Thornburg Strategic Income Fund.
Performance data shown represents past performance and is no guarantee of future results. Investment return and principal value will fluctuate so shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost. Current performance may be lower or higher than quoted. For performance current to the most recent month end, see the 
The Wall Street Transcript
Before investing, carefully consider the Fund’s investment goals, risks, charges, and expenses. For a prospectus or summary prospectus containing this and other information, contact your financial advisor or visit
Portfolio Manager Jeff Klingelhofer provides his take on the 25-basis-point rate cut by the Fed. While it creates volatility short-term, more important to consider are long-term implications for investors. 
Before investing, carefully consider the Fund’s investment goals, risks, charges, and expenses. For a prospectus or summary prospectus containing this and other information, contact your financial advisor or visit
Portfolio Manager Jeff Klingelhofer joined Yahoo! Finance to discuss the Fed's decision to cut rates for the first time in over a decade.
Market expectations should not help drive monetary policy.
The Fed is poised to join the global easing bandwagon, fueling a surge in risk asset prices. As market distortions from easy money grow, so does the importance of security selection and portfolio allocation.
Unless otherwise noted, the source of all data, charts, tables and graphs is Thornburg Investment Management, Inc., as of 6/30/19.
Investments carry risks, including possible loss of principal.  Portfolios investing in bonds have the same interest rate, inflation, and credit risks that are associated with the underlying bonds. The value of bonds will fluctuate relative to changes in interest rates, decreasing when interest rates rise.  This effect is more pronounced for longer-term bonds.  Unlike bonds, bond funds have ongoing fees and expenses. Investments in lower rated and unrated bonds may be more sensitive to default, downgrades, and market volatility; these investments may also be less liquid than higher rated bonds. Investments in derivatives are subject to the risks associated with the securities or other assets underlying the pool of securities, including illiquidity and difficulty in valuation. Investments in equity securities are subject to additional risks, such as greater market fluctuations.  Additional risks may be associated with investments outside the United States, especially in emerging markets, including currency fluctuations, illiquidity, volatility, and political and economic risks.  Investments in the Fund are not FDIC insured, nor are they bank deposits or guaranteed by a bank or any other entity.
The views expressed are subject to change and do not necessarily reflect the views of Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. This information should not be relied upon as a recommendation or investment advice and is not intended to predict the performance of any investment or market.
The Morningstar Multisector Bond Category is made up of funds with 35% to 65% of bond assets in securities that are not rated or are rated BB and below. Multisector-bond portfolios seek income by diversifying their assets among several fixed- income sectors, usually U.S. government obligations, U.S. corporate bonds, foreign bonds, and high-yield U.S. debt securities.
The Morningstar Nontraditional Bond Category contains funds that pursue strategies divergent in one or more ways from conventional practice in the broader bond-fund universe. Many funds in this group describe themselves as “absolute return” portfolios, which seek to avoid losses and produce returns uncorrelated with the overall bond market.
U.S. Treasury securities, such as bills, notes and bonds, are negotiable debt obligations of the U.S. government. These debt obligations are backed by the “full faith and credit” of the government and issued at various schedules and maturities.  Income from Treasury securities is exempt from state and local, but not federal, taxes.
The performance of any index is not indicative of the performance of any particular investment. Unless otherwise noted, index returns reflect the reinvestment of income dividends and capital gains, if any, but do not reflect fees, brokerage commissions or other expenses of investing. Investors may not make direct investments into any index.
High yield bonds may offer higher yields in return for more risk exposure.
There is no guarantee that the Fund will meet its investment objectives.
Please see our  
Thornburg mutual funds are distributed by Thornburg Securities Corporation.
Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. mutual funds are sold through investment professionals including investment advisors, brokerage firms, bank trust departments, trust companies and certain other financial intermediaries. Thornburg Securities Corporation (TSC) does not act as broker of record for investors.
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

Home
We work hard to invest in a balanced portfolio and have a large component of stable and consistent businesses, but we do tend to own less “expensive defensives” than the overall market.
2nd Quarter 2019
The two most interesting things we see today are the wild outperformance of low volatility stocks, especially over the last year, and the associated underperformance of value stocks.
2nd Quarter 2019
Through our repeatable bottom-up process that relies on deep fundamental research, we are, even in this environment, finding opportunities to deploy capital into businesses with franchise characteristics and durable growth drivers.
2nd Quarter 2019
Global equity markets continued their 2019 advance in the second quarter but May witnessed the first material market drawdown of the year, triggered by renewed trade friction between the U.S. and China and related concerns about global growth.
2nd Quarter 2019
We believe dispersion in equity returns and valuations across regions and sectors—such as we’ve seen recently—will present more opportunities ahead for our investment framework.
2nd Quarter 2019
In light of tight spreads, weakening corporate and consumer fundamentals, and a slowing global economic environment, we remain defensively positioned.
2nd Quarter 2019
Through our repeatable bottom-up process that relies on deep fundamental research, we are, even in this environment, finding opportunities to deploy capital into businesses with franchise characteristics and durable growth drivers that can deliver compelling risk-adjusted returns over time.
2nd Quarter 2019
Although recent macroeconomic conditions have been challenging within many emerging markets, we believe their prospects are improving and are excited about the near-term prospects for our holdings.
2nd Quarter 2019
Given our skeptical view on the Fed and its motives, the duration of the portfolio has remained constant through much of the second quarter as we have focused more on diversifying the portfolio to weather many economic outcomes.
2nd Quarter 2019
With the promise of a resumption of trade negotiations between China and the U.S. after the G-20 Summit, markets rebounded in June and finished positively for the quarter.
2nd Quarter 2019
The municipal bond market is changing. Investors just haven’t realized yet. In our minds, it has led to a mispricing of risk broadly. As such, we are running portfolios more conservatively. Mindful of the fact that when price and fundamental value diverge, there tends to be a reckoning.
2nd Quarter 2019
While demographic trends continue to drive increased appetite for income-producing vehicles, global central bank policy continues to distort the relationship between stock and bond yields.
2nd Quarter 2019
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

Home
The S&P 500 Index returned 4.3% during the second quarter, with low volatility stocks leading the way, growth stocks just behind and value stocks lagging. The Thornburg Long/Short Equity Fund had a disappointing quarter, down 2.00% (I shares). For the first half of 2019 that puts the fund up 6.21%, which is a little over a third of the S&P 500 Index’s 18.54% for the period, about in line with our net exposure during the period (32%). We had a great first quarter in Long/Short Equity but gave our lead back during the second quarter.
What We See
The two most interesting things we see today are the wild outperformance of low volatility stocks, especially over the last year, and the associated underperformance of value stocks.
Chart 1
Chart 2
Chart 3
To frame the current environment, we must discuss interest rates. As of this writing, the U.S. 10-year Treasury sits just above 2%, down from 3.25% last fall. Globally, record amounts are invested in negative yielding bonds today (approximately USD 13 trillion). By one measure, global interest rates are at 5,000 year lows.
Many investors use discounted cash flow (DCF) or dividend discount models (DDM) to value their equity investments. Both are highly dependent on two variables, the projected constant growth rate in perpetuity and constant cost of equity capital. As the risk-free rate declines, so does the cost of equity capital. Funny things begin to happen as investors apply forever low risk-free rates into their valuation models. The implied P/E valuation for businesses that are projected to grow forever can go almost parabolic. This may explain some of the valuation discrepancy that we’re seeing in growth and low volatility companies relative to the rest of the market.
Interestingly, as the discount rate declines, the portion of valuation driven by cash flows further out in the future increases. From the AllianceBernstein research report 
Investors, especially factor ETF investors, seem to be using a shortcut to figure out which companies will grow fast, forever. They have been plowing money into S&P 500 low volatility ETFs, which simply track the performance for the 100 least volatile stocks in the S&P 500 Index as measured by trailing 12-month standard deviation. It also happens that these ETFs have performed well, of late, and according to Empirical Research Partners report 
Either way, we think the valuation dispersion is misguided, and has left improperly valued companies on both sides of the spectrum. We’ve long said that defensives look expensive to us— and now, even more so. We work hard to invest in a balanced portfolio and have a large component of stable and consistent growers, but we do tend to own less “expensive defensives” in our long book than the overall market. On the other side of the book, we saw large positive returns in several of our shorts during the quarter that fall in either the high growth or low volatility camps. These dynamics have weighed on recent performance, but we believe set the portfolio up for great results in the future.
We also tend not to focus on DCF or DDM valuation approaches in our valuation work. We rely more heavily on tying our adjusted earnings forecasts to the free cash flow generation capability of a business and calculating price targets based on a multiple of adjusted earnings a year or two into the future. We award higher multiples to businesses that we think will grow earnings faster or where we believe the earnings stream is more predictable (i.e. less cyclical). The work that we do on “reason for being” and “competitive dynamics” supports our forward earnings projections. We see great opportunity today on both sides of the book.
While the short book generated the negative contribution that took our overall result negative for the quarter, our performance there was ok, on a relative basis. Our shorts were up in line with the S&P 500 during the quarter. The real problem was that our longs did not keep up with the market (up 1.5% vs. 4.3% for the S&P 500).
While we had strong results in the consumer discretionary sector, other sectors were weak. Consumer staples stocks were our biggest drag on performance, followed by health care, industrials, communications services and information technology.
The long detractors highlighted below, Alkermes and Pure Storage, were an almost 2% drag on results during the quarter. In a big up quarter, these individual positions hurt. That said, we remain convicted in both.
* Gross of fees.
Percentages can and do vary. The stated Fund performance does not reflect any fair value pricing that may be recorded by the Fund’s custodian, and therefore could be materially different than actual Fund performance.
Second-Quarter Top Performers
Second-Quarter Bottom Performers
Thank you, as always, for your trust and confidence.
Performance data shown represents past performance and is no guarantee of future results. Investment return and principal value will fluctuate so shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost. Current performance may be lower or higher than quoted. For performance current to the most recent month end, see the 
The two most interesting things we see today are the wild outperformance of low volatility stocks, especially over the last year, and the associated underperformance of value stocks.
The Fed is poised to join the global easing bandwagon, fueling a surge in risk asset prices. As market distortions from easy money grow, so does the importance of security selection and portfolio allocation.
Staying invested is critical to investment success.
A long/short equity strategy can help mitigate volatility and provide a differentiated return stream. But, there are issues to consider.
Mutual Fund Tax Information
Unless otherwise noted, the source of all data, charts, tables and graphs is Thornburg Investment Management, Inc., as of 6/30/19.
Data prior to 12/30/16 is from the predecessor fund.
Notable purchases and sales includes material transactions other than recently purchased securities, which may be excluded for best execution purposes.
The Fund may invest in shares of companies through initial public offerings (IPOs). IPOs have the potential to produce substantial gains and there is no assurance that the Fund will have continued access to profitable IPOs. As Fund assets grow, the impact of IPO investments on performance may decline.
Investments carry risks, including possible loss of principal.  Additional risks may be associated with investments outside the United States, especially in emerging markets, including currency fluctuations, illiquidity, volatility, and political and economic risks.  Investments in small- and mid-capitalization companies may increase the risk of greater price fluctuations. A short position will lose value as the security's price increases. Theoretically, the loss on a short sale can be unlimited. Investments in derivatives are subject to the risks associated with the securities or other assets underlying the pool of securities, including illiquidity and difficulty in valuation. Non-diversified funds can be more volatile than diversified funds. Investments in the Fund are not FDIC insured, nor are they bank deposits or guaranteed by a bank or any other entity.
The views expressed are subject to change and do not necessarily reflect the views of Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. This information should not be relied upon as a recommendation or investment advice and is not intended to predict the performance of any investment or market.
Any securities, sectors, or countries mentioned are for illustration purposes only. Holdings are subject to change. Under no circumstances does the information contained within represent a recommendation to buy or sell any security.
Class I shares may not be available to all investors. Minimum investments for the I share class may be higher than those for other classes.
Portfolio attributes and holdings can and do vary.
Morningstar Long/Short Equity Category – Long/short portfolios hold sizeable stakes in both long and short positions in equities, exchange traded funds, and related derivatives. At least 75% of the assets are in equity securities or derivatives, and funds in the category will typically have beta values to relevant benchmarks of between 0.3 and 0.8 over a three-year period.
The performance of any index is not indicative of the performance of any particular investment. Unless otherwise noted, index returns reflect the reinvestment of income dividends and capital gains, if any, but do not reflect fees, brokerage commissions or other expenses of investing. Investors may not make direct investments into any index.
There is no guarantee that the Fund will meet its investment objectives.
Please see our  
Thornburg mutual funds are distributed by Thornburg Securities Corporation.
Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. mutual funds are sold through investment professionals including investment advisors, brokerage firms, bank trust departments, trust companies and certain other financial intermediaries. Thornburg Securities Corporation (TSC) does not act as broker of record for investors.
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

The Fed is tasked with keeping prices stable, unemployment low and long-term interest rates moderate. The monetary alchemy with such unstable elements is coming under review.
 
The U.S. Federal Reserve can hardly be blamed for thinking about moving its monetary policy goalposts, or at least the one targeting a specific inflation level. After all, if the Fed has long been unable to consistently spur annual inflation to run at the desired 2% pace, it’s sensible to examine why, consider whether an alternative inflation-targeting framework might make sense, and perhaps ask whether its dual, if not triple mandate, is coherent and achievable.
The Fed’s monetary policy coterie, the Federal Open Markets Committee (FOMC), held a June 4-5 conference at its Chicago branch to review monetary policy since the Financial Crisis. Stable prices are one statutory objective Congress mandated in the Federal Reserve Act. “Maximum employment” and “moderate long-term interest rates” are the other two. How has the U.S. monetary authority done?
On the surface, not bad. U.S. unemployment topped out at 10% in 2009 and has since fallen to less than 4% as the Fed slashed its key rate to near zero and kept it there till late 2015, while more than quintupling the size of its balance sheet through asset purchases known as quantitative easing (QE).
But wage growth has averaged just 2.3% annually over the period, while the core Personal Consumption Expenditure Index, the Fed’s preferred inflation measure, has averaged a below-target 1.6% yearly. Worryingly, both market- and survey-based inflation expectations have also been steadily coming down. So has the Fed’s own median long-term neutral rate projection, at which unemployment and inflation are thought to be optimally balanced: the current 2.5% upper bound of the Federal funds rate stands just a quarter-point below the long-run neutral projection.
 
Source: Bloomberg


 
Source: Bloomberg


History Not as Good a Guide Nowadays
That doesn’t leave the Fed much room to cut rates to lift inflation to the targeted level or to boost a flagging economy before it falls into recession and employment retreats from maximum levels. As for moderate long-term rates, perhaps, like inflation, they’ve become too moderate. The term premium, or the compensation investors want to take on the interest rate risk of longer-term securities, has been close to zero or negative since 2012, when the Fed formally adopted its 2% inflation target. Indeed, the New York Fed’s 10-year Treasury Term Premium hit a record low -0.7897% in late May, just as the U.S. 10-year Treasury yield dropped a full percentage point to 2.26% from 3.26% in October of last year.
Source: Federal Reserve Bank of New York


Meanwhile, the market seems unsure about the significance of a modest inversion of the yield curve after three-month rates just exceeded 10-year rates by a dozen basis points. Historically, that usually signals a recession not far down the road. “But history isn’t as good a guide nowadays,” Thornburg portfolio manager Jeff Klingelhofer says. “The Fed has suppressed the term premium with QE and low benchmark rates. But it’s not just the Fed. Foreign demand is also robust, with U.S. rates meaningfully higher than the negative rates in Europe and Japan. Treasuries also draw safe-haven flows out of emerging markets. Capital requirements at banking institutions and the use of Treasuries as collateral in derivatives markets are also driving up demand,” all of which pushes prices higher and yields lower.
While concerns about the tit-for-tat tariffs that the U.S. and China are slapping on each other’s goods imports are compounding worries about global growth, a U.S. recession isn’t fast approaching, despite the yield curve inversion and negative term premium. “Bonds are just doing mathematically what they’re supposed to do,” Klingelhofer points out, adding that the U.S. economy may be slowing, but with growth still projected at 2.6% this year and 1.9% in 2020, it’s not stumbling.
Yet that begs the question about the Fed’s mandate. Unemployment is at a five-decade low; annual wage growth has picked up to average 3.4% over the first four months of 2019, with the lowest income brackets posting the highest gains; consumer debt isn’t at alarming levels and consumer confidence is strong. Toward the end of a rough May, the S&P 500 Index was off 6.6% from its record high a month earlier, leaving it with a total return of nearly 10% so far this year. Ester George, head of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, warned that leaving rates at still accommodative levels risks asset price bubbles, financial instability and recession. So why is the bond market rallying, the yield curve inverting and Fed funds futures reflecting at least two rate cuts by the end of December?
Fears of a Deflationary Feedback Loop
Rather than the inflationary pressures that 3.6% unemployment and rising wages should create in theory, the bond market appears convinced the Fed is increasingly worried about below-target inflation and especially weak inflation expectations. In simultaneous contrast to George’s remarks, Fed Governor Lael Brainard recently argued the Fed should let inflation “slightly” overshoot its target “for a couple of years” because the U.S. economy’s “new normal” is less influenced by a strong labor market. A handful of other FMOC members have also effectively argued for adjusting the mandate to allow for an average inflation-targeting framework that would permit inflation to run above target until inflation expectations start to converge with it. They’re concerned about disinflation, or slowing inflation, and especially deflation, or falling prices.
Several difficult problems emanate from a disinflationary, not to speak of a Japan-style deflationary mindset, which favors saving over spending as a currency’s purchasing power increases. That, in turn, tends to exacerbate unemployment as recessionary pressures build while consumption declines. “The Fed is very fearful of that feedback loop,” says Klingelhofer. “If you accept the world has deflationary forces such as demographics (aging populations across most regions) and technology advances, there’s a strong case for pursuing inflation.”
But careful what you wish for, Klingelhofer warns. Inflationary forces may only be masked by “Wright’s Law” of falling unit costs amid production improvements and economies of scale. Decent U.S. economic growth coupled with twin fiscal and current account deficits, a fast-growing national debt load in the wake of the 2017 tax reform and the potential change toward a more permissive inflation-targeting framework via a lower-for-even-longer rate regime could undercut the U.S. dollar strength of the last couple years, paving the way for imported inflation. What if economic growth then weakens amid still frothy risk asset prices?
Timing the Punchbowl
Will the Fed cut rates to boost a weakening economy, or raise them to fight budding inflation and the potential financial market excesses that overly moderate long-term rates create? “If you let inflation run above target, you also let financial bubbles build,” Klingelhofer points out. “How do you square moderate long-term rates, price stability and a sustainably strong economy?”
The FMOC wasn’t expecting to answer that question at its Chicago meeting, and any change in the inflation framework wouldn’t come until next year in any event. But its publicity of the forum at least suggests loose monetary policy until inflation not only hits the 2% target but perhaps exceeds it, too. An elixir of monetary and fiscal stimulus to juice inflation and the economy could make the Fed’s third mandate on moderate long-term rates harder to pull off. Removing the punchbowl in a timely manner is difficult, as past bursts of market bubbles show.
“We continue to believe we aren’t imminently heading toward recession,” Klingelhofer says. “Yet we also believe portfolios should be cautiously positioned.”



          custom text        


Thank you for your comments!
Subscribe now to stay up-to-date with Thornburg’s Blogs
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

Home
Global equity markets continued their 2019 advance in the second quarter but May witnessed the first material market drawdown of the year, triggered by collapsing trade talks between the U.S. and China. Markets had assumed that the talks were progressing well and nearing a successful conclusion based on comments coming out of negotiations, but on May 5th President Trump threatened to raise tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese goods, from 10% to 25%, and to place new tariffs of 25% on the remaining $325 billion of Chinese products, claiming that China had reneged on previous commitments. Along with increasing political tension, investors also saw macroeconomic data that pointed to a further loss of momentum across the global economy. The market was firmly in “risk off” mode and the MSCI All Country World Index (ACWI) was down 5.93% in May, with emerging market equities underperforming developed market equities. Global government bond yields fell in May and June with expectations of earlier and more aggressive rate cuts from the U.S. Fed. With the promise of a resumption of trade negotiations between China and the U.S. after the G-20 Summit, markets rebounded in June and finished positively for the quarter.
For the quarter, the Thornburg International Value Fund returned 4.43% (I shares), versus 2.98% for the MSCI ACWI ex-U.S. Index and 3.68% for the MSCI EAFE Index. Year-to-date, the Fund has returned 20.79% versus 13.60% for the MSCI ACWI ex-U.S. Index and 14.03% for the MSCI EAFE Index.
For the quarter and year-to-date, the fund’s outperformance versus its benchmark indices has been driven almost entirely by bottom-up stock selection, which is central to the fund’s investment process. As a result, the fund has recouped most of its underperformance versus its benchmark indices in 2018, a down year for global markets.
Top Performers
Bottom Performers
Thank you for investing alongside us in the Thornburg International Value Fund.
Performance data shown represents past performance and is no guarantee of future results. Investment return and principal value will fluctuate so shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost. Current performance may be lower or higher than quoted. For performance current to the most recent month end, see the 
The Fed is poised to join the global easing bandwagon, fueling a surge in risk asset prices. As market distortions from easy money grow, so does the importance of security selection and portfolio allocation.
With the promise of a resumption of trade negotiations between China and the U.S. after the G-20 Summit, markets rebounded in June and finished positively for the quarter.
n an effort to build a robust and diversified portfolio designed to participate at various times across a market cycle, we think of the investable universe in three baskets.
After a turbulent May, China and emerging markets appear poised to resume their ascent from the first quarter, even as trade-related air pockets remain likely. 
While deep industry knowledge is very important, investment outcomes are even more important. We believe the interdisciplinary approach leads to better investment decisions because we’re evaluating opportunities across sectors...
Unless otherwise noted, the source of all data, charts, tables and graphs is Thornburg Investment Management, Inc., as of 6/30/19.
Investments carry risks, including possible loss of principal.  Additional risks may be associated with investments outside the United States, especially in emerging markets, including currency fluctuations, illiquidity, volatility, and political and economic risks.  Investments in small- and mid-capitalization companies may increase the risk of greater price fluctuations. Investments in the Fund are not FDIC insured, nor are they bank deposits or guaranteed by a bank or any other entity.
The views expressed are subject to change and do not necessarily reflect the views of Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. This information should not be relied upon as a recommendation or investment advice and is not intended to predict the performance of any investment or market.
Any securities, sectors, or countries mentioned are for illustration purposes only. Holdings are subject to change. Under no circumstances does the information contained within represent a recommendation to buy or sell any security.
The performance of any index is not indicative of the performance of any particular investment. Unless otherwise noted, index returns reflect the reinvestment of income dividends and capital gains, if any, but do not reflect fees, brokerage commissions or other expenses of investing. Investors may not make direct investments into any index.
There is no guarantee that the Fund will meet its investment objectives.
Please see our  
Thornburg mutual funds are distributed by Thornburg Securities Corporation.
Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. mutual funds are sold through investment professionals including investment advisors, brokerage firms, bank trust departments, trust companies and certain other financial intermediaries. Thornburg Securities Corporation (TSC) does not act as broker of record for investors.
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

Home
For the second quarter of 2019, the Thornburg Core Growth Fund returned 3.07% (I shares), trailing its benchmark, the Russell 3000 Growth Index (the index), which returned 4.50%. This brings the year-to-date 2019 return to 21.66% for the fund, versus 21.41% for the index. The fund’s I shares have returned 9.34% since inception.
Global markets experienced an acute bout of negative volatility in May as the United States unexpectedly ratcheted up trade tensions with two of its largest trading partners, Mexico and China. Both domestic and foreign financial markets were further pressured as investors digested soft economic data suggesting weakening trends in global growth. We saw treasury and other foreign sovereign yields decrease notably as investors clamored for safe haven assets. It was only after trade tensions de-escalated when tariffs on Mexico were dropped and a temporary truce was achieved with China at the G-20 Summit that markets settled and turned. Furthermore, U.S. and European central bank policy makers signaled a more accommodative policy stance, helping to boost investor confidence. Uncertainty lingers around the eventual outcome of trade negotiations and continues to weigh on markets.
With the global economy appearing to be late in the cycle, it remains to be seen whether proper policy and political actions will keep growth resilient or whether an already softening economy will be further harmed by adverse events.
Top Performers
Top performers for the quarter included Facebook, Visa, DexCom, Fleetcor Technologies and Expedia.
Facebook shares continued their recovery from last year’s swoon and have been a strong contributor to results year to date. Despite the company’s well-publicized privacy and security challenges, it’s fundamental operating metrics have been healthy and shares have recovered in part from less of a revenue deceleration than previously feared.
Visa continues to execute well with robust organic growth and improving margins and has a long duration secular growth opportunity ahead as payments steadily shift towards more digital forms over time.
FleetCor Technologies is a global provider of fleet payment cards and commercial payment solutions. The company reported a solid quarter and raised guidance. Fuel card growth accelerated and reassured investors after hitting a speed bump last year.
DexCom develops, manufactures and distributes glucose-monitoring systems. The company reported revenue growth that far exceeded expectations and demonstrated continued strong adoption of their Continuous Glucose Monitoring solutions.
Expedia is the world’s largest online travel agency by bookings. The company operates in what is effectively a duopoly market and recent investments and acquisitions stand to add to the company’s existing platform scale. Shares traded up on an improving macro outlook, following a softening stance from the Federal Reserve, which could encourage more consumer discretionary spending.
Bottom Performers
Bottom performers this quarter included Pivotal Software, Arista Networks, Alphabet, Affiliated Managers Group and SS&C Technologies.
Pivotal Software provides software solutions to help enterprises transition their businesses to the cloud. In the quarter, the newly public company saw a shift in demand as potential customers took longer to reach deal closure, leading to downward guidance. The business has inherent lumpiness but still appears well positioned among peers. Arista Networks primarily provides switching equipment for large data centers and campuses.
Arista traded down during the quarter as they hit a “speed bump” in demand, resulting in a soft guide for the second quarter.
Alphabet sold off in June following media reports that the U.S. Department of Justice is investigating the company’s competitive practices. While regulatory proceedings can put an overhang on a stock, there are numerous examples where these have been very attractive buying opportunities for long-term investors.
Affiliated Managers Group is a global asset manager. The company saw a nearly 12% drop in assets under management (AUM) in 2018. Earnings reported during the quarter showed continued weak AUM trends.
SS&C engages in the development and provision of software solutions. While recent reported earnings were in line with market expectations, organic growth deceleration remains a key concern.
Outlook
Investors will be watching closely whether this latest ebb in trade tensions is just a temporary pause before talks breakdown as both sides take on entrenched positions or if parties are genuinely making progress towards a resolution that is ultimately in the interest of all groups involved and the global economy at large.
Although we are seeing a downtrend in various business and consumer confidence indicators, we remain optimistic that despite the continuing economic and trade risks, the global economy will prove to be more resilient than expected. Across the major developed markets, we see labor and employment conditions as healthy with broadly rising incomes. In the eurozone, for example, unemployment now stands at 7.6%, not far off from pre-crisis levels. Although select labor markets in advanced economies are considered tight, inflation trends broadly have been relatively muted. We believe this will allow the strong dovish signaling we’ve seen from major central banks to become more than merely words, but concrete policy actions.
As we enter late cycle conditions, a slowing global economy appears to be underway. We believe these conditions will favor stock selection and the companies that will outperform are the ones we tend to favor, that is high-quality growth companies that can transcend the economic cycle through secular growth opportunities, superior execution and growing economic moats.
Through our repeatable bottom-up process that relies on deep fundamental research, we are, even in this environment, finding opportunities to deploy capital into businesses with franchise characteristics and durable growth drivers that can deliver compelling risk-adjusted returns over time.
We thank you for investing alongside us in the Thornburg Core Growth Fund.
Performance data shown represents past performance and is no guarantee of future results. Investment return and principal value will fluctuate so shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost. Current performance may be lower or higher than quoted. For performance current to the most recent month end, see the 
The Fed is poised to join the global easing bandwagon, fueling a surge in risk asset prices. As market distortions from easy money grow, so does the importance of security selection and portfolio allocation.
Through our repeatable bottom-up process that relies on deep fundamental research, we are, even in this environment, finding opportunities to deploy capital into businesses with franchise characteristics and durable growth drivers.
While deep industry knowledge is very important, investment outcomes are even more important. We believe the interdisciplinary approach leads to better investment decisions because we’re evaluating opportunities across sectors...
Even before the market selloff, downtrodden value stocks were perking up as pricey growth stocks stumbled. But durable index-level shifts are harder to call than individual stock price disconnects from business fundamentals.
Tech and financials led the recent selloff, as headline noise and regulatory risks spooked investors. But strong corporate fundamentals, including earnings growth, should ultimately drive stock returns.
Unless otherwise noted, the source of all data, charts, tables and graphs is Thornburg Investment Management, Inc., as of 6/30/19.
Investments carry risks, including possible loss of principal.  Additional risks may be associated with investments outside the United States, especially in emerging markets, including currency fluctuations, illiquidity, volatility, and political and economic risks.  Investments in small- and mid-capitalization companies may increase the risk of greater price fluctuations. Investments in the Fund are not FDIC insured, nor are they bank deposits or guaranteed by a bank or any other entity.
The views expressed are subject to change and do not necessarily reflect the views of Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. This information should not be relied upon as a recommendation or investment advice and is not intended to predict the performance of any investment or market.
Any securities, sectors, or countries mentioned are for illustration purposes only. Holdings are subject to change. Under no circumstances does the information contained within represent a recommendation to buy or sell any security.
The performance of any index is not indicative of the performance of any particular investment. Unless otherwise noted, index returns reflect the reinvestment of income dividends and capital gains, if any, but do not reflect fees, brokerage commissions or other expenses of investing. Investors may not make direct investments into any index.
There is no guarantee that the Fund will meet its investment objectives.
Please see our  
Thornburg mutual funds are distributed by Thornburg Securities Corporation.
Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. mutual funds are sold through investment professionals including investment advisors, brokerage firms, bank trust departments, trust companies and certain other financial intermediaries. Thornburg Securities Corporation (TSC) does not act as broker of record for investors.
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

As downward pressure on negative bond yields builds, a flexible approach helps in the search for attractive, relative values.
In 
A real-world example can illustrate nicely, particularly at a time when market expectations of monetary easing have quickly enveloped the U.S. Federal Reserve, European Central Bank officials have declared readiness to resume asset purchases or slash rates even deeper, and half a dozen other central banks in Asia have already cut them.
Across the ratings spectrum, corporate credit spreads have compressed sharply. The amount of negative-yielding debt in JPMorgan’s Global Aggregate Bond Index jumped from 18% last October to roughly 25% at the end of March; European sovereign debt sporting sub-zero yields accounted for nearly 40% of Eurozone indices.
That certainly doesn’t make it easy for passive bond funds, “which have to buy formulaically, no matter the yield,” notes Thornburg Chief Investment Officer Brian McMahon. “If the index is X% German government bonds, which carry negative yields out to about 15 years, they need to be that percentage, too, whether they like the yields or not.” In a 
A flexible, benchmark agnostic approach can take many forms, particularly in hybrid stock/bond strategies that can invest all along a firm’s capital structure. For example, U.S. pipeline companies sold off with energy prices in mid-2014. Slews of “Master Limited Partnerships” subsequently cut their dividends. Switching from their equity to their debt instruments made for a fruitful trade.
“Dividend cuts are always a bad thing if you’re a stockholder but quite a good thing if you’re a bondholder because more cash will be allocated to shoring up credit characteristics,” McMahon says. “Over the years, we’ve seen that dividend cuts are often a signal to buy the bonds of a company that appears to be prioritizing upgrading its credit quality. That’s because it usually comes at a time when investors are questioning the company’s credit quality and its yields are high, at least relative to where they could be if the firm would just allocate more cash to debt servicing. We like to buy bonds of companies that come to that crossroads, and decide they’re going to repair their credit ratings and remove doubts about their credit worthiness.”
Much of the bond universe has become pricey, with negative real rates prevailing in much of the world. Yet inflows into bond funds continue to surge. The week to June 5 marked “the biggest inflows to investment grade bond funds ever,” at $12.3 billion, while government bond funds saw the second largest inflows ever,” at $8.9 billion, Bank of America/Merrill Lynch reported.
“Markets face issues involving market segmentation, home bias, and central bank intervention,” Kirby says. “All of which results in relative value discrepancies, which create opportunities for investors able to navigate between them.”
1. 



          custom text        


Thank you for your comments!
Subscribe now to stay up-to-date with Thornburg’s Blogs
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

Home
Global equities posted strong returns during the period. A selloff did occur in May on fears of slowing global growth and a prolonged trade war. But investors once again drove markets upward in June following dovish comments from Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell. The pattern was reminiscent of fourth quarter 2018 and first quarter 2019, albeit in a compressed timeline.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index generated positive returns, which were muted compared to the MSCI EAFE and S&P 500 indices, primarily due to weak performance from China. Within the MSCI EM Index, Russia, Brazil and South Africa drove returns higher, while China and Korea detracted. Chinese stock indices experienced double-digit losses in May as investors sought safe havens outside the crosshairs of the U.S.– China trade war.
A halt to U.S. dollar strengthening, brought about by the Fed’s dovish turn, broadly benefited emerging market currencies during the period.
Performance Discussion
For the second quarter of 2019, the Thornburg Developing World Fund returned 4.00% (I shares), ahead of the MSCI EM Index, which returned 0.61% during the period. Since its inception, the Developing World Fund has returned an annualized 6.92%, compared with the MSCI EM Index return of 3.30%.
The fund employs a basket approach, comprising “Basic Value” (BV), “Consistent Earner” (CE) and “Emerging Franchise” (EF) stocks. This additional layer of diversification is unique to Thornburg and is intended to provide exposure to a wide range of companies with varied cash flow and market cycle characteristics.
Our balanced approach to investing with a focus on risk management benefited the portfolio. We started 2019 with an increased weight in the EF basket as many names had become attractive following a broad selloff. These names performed well during the first quarter and as we rebalanced our basket weights in April, the EF weight was reduced, reflecting higher valuations. Assets from the EF basket reduction were redistributed among the CE and BV baskets, which overall were the strongest performers in the quarter.
Top Performers
Top performers during the quarter included Sberbank, AZUL S.A., Novatek, Network International and B3—Brasil Bolsa Balcao.
Sberbank is Russia’s leading bank, with over 40% market share in deposits. It continues to execute well, growing faster than GDP, deepening consumer loan penetration, and extending its technology leadership compared to other Russian banks and even many banks in developed European countries. Sberbank is also demonstrating its commitment to returning excess capital to shareholders; it paid an annual dividend of 6.5% to shareholders of record in June.
AZUL S.A. is a Brazil-based airline operator. The carrier delivered an outstanding quarter despite continued headwinds from foreign exchange, fuel prices and a weak Brazilian economy. Key drivers were a continuation of capacity growth and margin expansion, resulting from increased passenger traffic, a fuel-efficient fleet, an increase in cargo traffic and a successful loyalty program. It also benefited from system-wide capacity reduction related to the Avianca bankruptcy.
B3 is the leading platform for trading equities, options and fixed income in Brazil. Lower Brazilian interest rates have made equity investing relatively more attractive for domestic investors, and expectations are that foreign investors will be more interested in Brazilian investments if the country’s pension reform bill is passed this year. Moreover, lower interest rates have made it more attractive for companies to issue bonds, improving the outlook for bond origination volumes moving forward.
Network International is a payment processor based in Dubai with a strong presence in both the Middle East and Africa. We participated in Network’s IPO after determining that the IPO price represented a particularly attractive value, given the company’s high organic growth rate and potential to improve margins. We also appreciate Network’s durable competitive position.
Novatek, which is based in Russia, explores, produces, and processes natural gas and liquid hydrocarbons. International liquified natural gas (LNG) sales increased sharply thanks to the ramp of LNG trains from the Yamal project. Domestic natural gas sales also increased year over year. Additional Yamal project trains are expected to be complete by the end of 2019, ahead of original expectations in terms of timing and budget. During the quarter, the company finalized stake sales for its next major LNG project, Arctic LNG 2, which crystalized the value of this project and funded Novatek’s portion of capex.
Bottom Performers
Bottom performers for the period included First Quantum Minerals, Glencore, Zee Entertainment, Hangzhou Hikvision and Alibaba.
First Quantum mines and produces copper and gold, mostly within its mining operations in Africa. The stock price declined following prolonged copper oversupply, project cost overruns and delays on Cobre Panama and increased geopolitical uncertainty in Zambia.
Glencore is a diversified natural resources company that operates in metals and minerals, energy products and agricultural products. Shares fell during the quarter following news that the company was under investigation by the U.S CFTC for possible corrupt practices related to activities in Nigeria and the Democratic Republic of Congo. We believe the issues won’t materially impact the earnings power of the business and internal policies and procedures will be strengthened during the process.
Zee Entertainment Enterprises is an Indian mass media company with interests in television, film, mobile content, internet, print and related businesses. Zee produces and develops Hindi films, serials, game shows and children’s programs. Zee’s shares declined during the second quarter following a delay in the settlement of financial difficulties experienced by the controlling shareholder (the Essel Group). While the controlling shareholders personal difficulties have no impact on Zee’s business, the promoter has pledged part of his holdings to fund outside business investments. We purchased the stock following the initial decline as concerns mounted regarding this issue and the stock subsequently recovered as investors became confident in a short-term resolution. The shares retraced when the time to resolution became extended.
Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology develops, manufactures and sells video surveillance products. Shares fell due to concerns over the U.S.–China trade war, which may impact foreign demand for its services and its ability to source some higher-value components for its most sophisticated systems.
Alibaba dominates the online retail marketplace in China. It also provides e-commerce services outside China, fintech, cloud computing, logistics platform service and online video services. The stock sold off in May and was down 7% for the quarter along with other Chinese companies due to trade and economic concerns. We believe Alibaba’s businesses have multi-year earnings growth opportunities that are not reflected in the current share price, in part because current earnings are temporarily depressed by investments in high-potential projects.
Outlook
We think the recent shift in U.S. monetary policy toward a more accommodative stance represents a turning point for emerging market stocks. The persistent overhang of potential dollar strength has forced many emerging market central banks to maintain a tighter-than-normal monetary policy to defend their currencies, keep inflation at bay and minimize the potential for external shocks. With the shift in the U.S. monetary policy, we expect less upward pressure on the dollar, which should give other central banks some room to ease. We expect a stable dollar, during a period of weaker growth in the U.S., to drive investor enthusiasm for overseas markets in general and in particular emerging markets, given the potential for acceleration following a weak period.
The combination of accelerating growth across emerging markets, a favorable currency outlook and attractive valuations compared to U.S. stocks sets up a golden hour for emerging markets equity investing. Although recent macroeconomic conditions have been challenging within many emerging markets, we believe their prospects are improving and are excited about the near-term prospects for our holdings.
Thank you for investing alongside us in the Thornburg Developing World Fund.
Performance data shown represents past performance and is no guarantee of future results. Investment return and principal value will fluctuate so shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost. Current performance may be lower or higher than quoted. For performance current to the most recent month end, see the 
Correlations in “growth” and “value” equity factors may undercut the diversification benefits of benchmark-relative exposures to sectors and geographies. Consistent portfolio balance by “styles,” though, can lower beta and lift alpha.  
Before investing, carefully consider the Fund’s investment goals, risks, charges, and expenses. For a prospectus or summary prospectus containing this and other information, contact your financial advisor or visit
Portfolio Manager Charlie Wilson discusses the current state of emerging markets, particularly China, and what opportunities and risks investors should consider when navigating the space. 
The Fed is poised to join the global easing bandwagon, fueling a surge in risk asset prices. As market distortions from easy money grow, so does the importance of security selection and portfolio allocation.
Although recent macroeconomic conditions have been challenging within many emerging markets, we believe their prospects are improving and are excited about the near-term prospects for our holdings.
It’s one of the best times to invest in emerging markets
Unless otherwise noted, the source of all data, charts, tables and graphs is Thornburg Investment Management, Inc., as of 6/30/19.
Investments carry risks, including possible loss of principal.  Additional risks may be associated with investments outside the United States, especially in emerging markets, including currency fluctuations, illiquidity, volatility, and political and economic risks.  Investments in small- and mid-capitalization companies may increase the risk of greater price fluctuations. Investments in the Fund are not FDIC insured, nor are they bank deposits or guaranteed by a bank or any other entity.
The views expressed are subject to change and do not necessarily reflect the views of Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. This information should not be relied upon as a recommendation or investment advice and is not intended to predict the performance of any investment or market.
Any securities, sectors, or countries mentioned are for illustration purposes only. Holdings are subject to change. Under no circumstances does the information contained within represent a recommendation to buy or sell any security.
Diversification does not assure or guarantee better performance and cannot eliminate the risk of investment losses.
The performance of any index is not indicative of the performance of any particular investment. Unless otherwise noted, index returns reflect the reinvestment of income dividends and capital gains, if any, but do not reflect fees, brokerage commissions or other expenses of investing. Investors may not make direct investments into any index.
There is no guarantee that the Fund will meet its investment objectives.
Please see our  
Thornburg mutual funds are distributed by Thornburg Securities Corporation.
Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. mutual funds are sold through investment professionals including investment advisors, brokerage firms, bank trust departments, trust companies and certain other financial intermediaries. Thornburg Securities Corporation (TSC) does not act as broker of record for investors.
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

Home
During the second quarter of 2019, Thornburg Limited Term Income Fund returned 1.85% (I shares), underperforming the 2.59% gain in the Bloomberg Barclays Intermediate Government/ Credit Index. The fund lagged the benchmark in the first half, returning 3.98% versus 4.97%. We maintain our focus on delivering superior returns over longer periods. Over the last decade, the fund has returned 4.33% on an annualized basis versus 3.24% for the benchmark. This long-term outperformance results in a cumulative return of 52.76% versus 37.53%.
We remain skeptical about the U.S. Federal Reserve’s actions and motives. It seems policy decisions are no longer driven by economic fundamentals, but instead by market movements. In many instances, asset prices are widely disconnected from their fundamentals. What has gone from a tacit inference that the Fed will prop up swooning financial markets—the Greenspan, Bernanke and Yellen “puts”—has become more explicit under current Fed Chairman Jerome Powell, as he speaks increasingly openly about financial conditions and stability as part of the Fed’s decision-making process. A financial asset’s price should reflect more of its individual fundamentals and less of the tidal effect of Fed policy.
It now appears highly likely that market sentiment hinges on a 25-basispoint cut in the Fed’s key policy rate this month, not on the overall condition of the U.S. economy, which is in decent shape despite bearish headlines on trade and global growth. It is hard to imagine a quarter- point reduction in the Federal funds rate either helps or hurts the broader U.S. economy. It is, however, easier to imagine a century-old institution undercutting its credibility by seemingly allowing itself to be bullied by markets.
To be sure, some U.S. economic data have been weakening in the U.S. and abroad. The global PMI is down a record 14 months in a row and has recently moved into contractionary territory. The U.S. itself is also sitting on the precipice on some leading indicators. The most recent ISM New Orders Index came in at 50.0, the exact number that defines the difference between contraction and expansion. Yet strong U.S. labor force growth and a supportive capex cycle are driving productivity gains. And while wage growth has leveled off lately, consumer sentiment and balance sheets remain relatively healthy.
It’s important to note that slowing global growth has prompted many central banks, not just the Federal Reserve, to move toward monetary accommodation. A number of central banks have already cut their key rates or provided guidance suggesting an easing bias. Some countries are pushing macro-prudential measures or fiscal stimulus. The European Central Bank recently extended forward guidance, as did the Bank of Japan, suggesting their respective policy rates will remain exceedingly low for quite some time. Others, such as the Reserve Bank of Australia, lowered rates due to concerns of slowing growth.
While the economic backdrop is important for fixed income investors, it’s also vitally important to look at both corporate and consumer health as leading indicators for the economy. Corporate fundamentals slipped a bit in the first quarter of 2019 as growth in revenue and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization were roughly flat, with the trend continuing in the second quarter. One important area of concern in the corporate market is leverage and interest coverage. While we are at or near all-time highs in terms of leverage, it is in a very different market than we experienced a decade ago. What we find disconcerting is not the sheer amount of leverage in the system but how stretched the fundamentals become when one factors in a slowing growth environment. This will surely cause problems for those who have thrown caution to the wind and indiscriminately bought credit at current levels.
Along with the decline in corporate fundamentals, consumer fundamentals have deteriorated, albeit much more modestly. The consumer is seeing increasing debt-to-income ratios as credit card rates are at a decade high. As expected, there has also been an uptick in delinquencies and losses. Despite these metrics, we continue to believe that the consumer is on solid footing, bolstered by the tight labor market.
The strength of the consumer has led us to opportunities in the Consumer Loan ABS sector. Often issued by online credit providers, with proceeds used by credit-worthy borrowers for credit card refinancing or home improvement loans, the structures offer several attractive features. The credit profile of the bonds improves dramatically every six months through an amortization process. The bonds offer an attractive spread to other shorter-duration bonds that quickly deleverage. Lastly, the shorter history for online lending allows for pricing inefficiencies, providing us the opportunity to purchase issues that create a wide margin for error.
And margin for error is all the more important given the backdrop of interest rates. For much of the second quarter rates have been in a free fall as the two-year U.S. Treasury has dropped from 2.41% in mid-April to 1.75% by the end of June. While the decrease in rates has generated a boon in fixed income prices, the lower yields have created a less appealing environment for the marginal dollar being invested. More importantly, total return has been driven by price appreciation despite all that has been said about the decline in fundamentals. Factoring in credit spreads, which have fallen precipitously throughout much of the year, and the margin of safety is narrow by all measures.
In light of tight spreads, weakening corporate and consumer fundamentals, and a slowing global economic environment, we remain defensively positioned. We continue to reduce corporate risk and move into short, senior tranches of ABS and RMBS where spreads have widened, offering a larger margin of safety. In Limited Term US Government, agency mortgages currently offer an attractive balance of risk versus reward. Given our skeptical view on the Fed and its motives, the duration of the portfolio has remained constant through much of the second quarter as we have focused more on diversifying the portfolio to weather many economic outcomes.
In Limited Term Income investors will notice a broad mix of government securities, corporate credit and a healthy amount of dry powder to take advantage of the inevitable volatility down the road. Our balanced approach has led to longterm outperformance for Limited Term Income Fund (I shares) versus our Morningstar peers in the U.S. Short-Term Bond category, producing top-quartile performance in one-, three-, five-, 10-, and 15-year periods. We believe our sound process will allow us to continue this trend for many years to come.
Thank you for investing alongside us in Thornburg Limited Term Income, Limited Term U.S. Government and Low Duration Income Funds.
U.S. Short-Term Bond category of funds. Rankings are based on total returns without sales charge. Source: Morningstar Direct.
Performance data shown represents past performance and is no guarantee of future results. Investment return and principal value will fluctuate so shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost. Current performance may be lower or higher than quoted. For performance current to the most recent month end, see the 
Before investing, carefully consider the Fund’s investment goals, risks, charges, and expenses. For a prospectus or summary prospectus containing this and other information, contact your financial advisor or visit
Portfolio Manager Jeff Klingelhofer provides his take on the 25-basis-point rate cut by the Fed. While it creates volatility short-term, more important to consider are long-term implications for investors. 
Before investing, carefully consider the Fund’s investment goals, risks, charges, and expenses. For a prospectus or summary prospectus containing this and other information, contact your financial advisor or visit
Portfolio Manager Jeff Klingelhofer joined Yahoo! Finance to discuss the Fed's decision to cut rates for the first time in over a decade.
Market expectations should not help drive monetary policy.
The Fed is poised to join the global easing bandwagon, fueling a surge in risk asset prices. As market distortions from easy money grow, so does the importance of security selection and portfolio allocation.
Before investing, carefully consider the Fund’s investment goals, risks, charges, and expenses. For a prospectus or summary prospectus containing this and other information, contact your financial advisor or visit
In the latest episode of Economic Perspectives, Portfolio Manager Jeff Klingelhofer dissects the latest Fed actions, the continuing U.S./China Trade War and how geopolitical risks could affect markets in the months to come.
Unless otherwise noted, the source of all data, charts, tables and graphs is Thornburg Investment Management, Inc., as of 6/30/19.
Investments carry risks, including possible loss of principal.  Portfolios investing in bonds have the same interest rate, inflation, and credit risks that are associated with the underlying bonds. The value of bonds will fluctuate relative to changes in interest rates, decreasing when interest rates rise.  Unlike bonds, bond funds have ongoing fees and expenses. Investments in mortgage-backed securities (MBS) may bear additional risk. Investments in the Fund are not FDIC insured, nor are they bank deposits or guaranteed by a bank or any other entity.
The views expressed are subject to change and do not necessarily reflect the views of Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. This information should not be relied upon as a recommendation or investment advice and is not intended to predict the performance of any investment or market.
© 2019 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. The information contained herein: (1) is proprietary to Morningstar and/or its content providers; (2) may not be copied or distributed; and (3) is not warranted to be accurate, complete or timely. Neither Morningstar nor its content providers are responsible for any damages or losses arising from any use of this information. Past performance is no guarantee of future results.
There is no guarantee that the Fund will meet its investment objectives.
Please see our  
Thornburg mutual funds are distributed by Thornburg Securities Corporation.
Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. mutual funds are sold through investment professionals including investment advisors, brokerage firms, bank trust departments, trust companies and certain other financial intermediaries. Thornburg Securities Corporation (TSC) does not act as broker of record for investors.
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

Big-ticket, ultra-short notes force muni SMAs with low minimums to buy longer-term paper at rich prices, likely giving clients more heartburn than total return.
Are tax-paying municipal market bond investors in smaller separately managed accounts being well served? Perhaps not. A recent anomaly in pricing of ultra-short and longer-term muni paper starkly illustrates the challenges facing SMAs that have modest minimum investment requirements.
Although the pricing aberration has abated somewhat, investors and financial advisors in smaller muni SMAs are likely still seeing their total return prospects strained if their accounts are stocked with pricey longer-term paper yielding the same as the ultra-short notes.
At the end of April, yields on tax-exempt muni issues known as variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), which reset daily or weekly, effectively matched the roughly 2.30% yields on AAA-rated muni bonds maturing in 2036 and 2037, according to Bloomberg data. The downward price pressure on VRDNs, which are also high quality, comes amid rising prices (and falling yields, which move inversely to prices) of muni bonds more generally. What gives?
During tax season, muni funds aren’t immune to investors redeeming shares to cover their obligations to Uncle Sam, so rising yields on VRDNs at this time of year aren’t surprising. But this time around, VRDN yields sky-rocketed nearly 80 basis points, about four times the usual increase. The last time VRDN yields rose by such magnitude was 2008.
SALT, Supply and Demand
The yield spike doesn’t portend another financial crisis, though, because it’s driven largely by the 2017 tax reform, which capped the deduction on state and local taxes (SALT) at $10,000. Despite the pressure on VRDNs, the SALT limit has broadly made munis, which generally benefit from favorable federal, state and local tax treatment, an attractive refuge for wealthy residents of high-tax states. That demand has also come amid significantly less new muni issuance.
April muni sales of around $25 billion were off 16% from their April 2018 level. Meanwhile, flows into muni mutual funds rounded $7 billion last month, compared with net outflows of $1.8 billion in April last year, according to the Investment Company Institute. Over the first four months of 2019, muni mutual fund inflows exceeded $34 billion, far outpacing the $9.4 billion collected during the year-earlier period. No wonder the benchmark Bloomberg Barclay’s Municipal Bond Index returned 3.2% over the first four months of the year, its best January-through-April run since 2014.
Following the tax-related selling, VRDN yields ebbed to an average of roughly 2% by May 6, on cross-over demand from taxable money market funds and as muni investors top back up their muni fund holdings now that tax season is over. But that’s what paper out to 2031 and 2032 yields. So investors with smaller muni SMAs would still be well advised to review how their managers are investing their capital.
“No Economic Sense”
“It makes no economic sense to buy AAA-rated muni bonds maturing more than a decade out but yielding the same as VRDNs maturing tomorrow,” Thornburg portfolio manager Nicholos Venditti points out. Because VRDNs cost $100,000, smaller SMAs, say with $250,000 in assets, can’t afford to have just more than 40% of their assets wrapped up in a single security, he notes.
Once a separate account is established, muni SMA investors typically want their managers to quickly invest the cash seeding it. But allocation speed doesn’t necessarily translate into attractive returns if the cash goes into pricey, high-grade intermediate-term bonds from states like California or New York that yield the same as zero-duration VRDNs. Duration risk is worth taking only when compensation for it—the yield—is adequate.
To be sure, clients with smaller SMAs may raise an eyebrow at lowish yields. But they have to weigh them against complex after-tax yields on the taxable investment alternatives, and, in the aftermath of the SALT cap, they may be more focused on the tax-favored status of munis. Nonetheless, those who bother to run the numbers may discover they would be better off in Treasuries if their SMAs’ are buying richly priced muni bonds, Venditti says. When the next bout of market volatility arrives, that will become painfully apparent, he warns.
SMAs with more assets don’t necessarily face the same structural constraints if they can buy VRDNs and find high-quality muni bonds at attractive prices. Clients of those that can’t, though, might be better off in a muni mutual fund that can do both, anytime of year.



          custom text        


Thank you for your comments!
Subscribe now to stay up-to-date with Thornburg’s Blogs
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

In an era of low interest rates, the right equity dividend strategy can provide the income and total return that investors seek.
As global economic growth slows and fixed income yields around the world stagnate near multi-year lows, finding an attractive source of income is becoming more challenging. Dividend-paying stocks can provide that income. Moreover, dividends have the potential to boost total returns over time, thanks to the power of compounding.
Lower for Longer
The global financial crisis ushered in a decade of unprecedented monetary stimulus measures by the world’s major central banks. Now, interest rates in the U.S., Europe and Japan are hovering at historical lows. At the time of this writing, the yield on the U.S. 10-year Treasury is just 1.71%, the lowest it’s been since October 2016. In Germany, the 10-year bund, a proxy for interest rates across the eurozone, recently dipped into negative yield territory, as it did in late 2016. The yield on Japan’s 10-year government bond is also negative.
July’s 25 basis point rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve reaffirms that the Fed and other central banks are on a dovish path to stoke the fading embers of global economic growth. It’s unlikely that an extended uptrend in rates will happen anytime soon.
Attractive Dividend Yields? Think Globally. 
Now is the time—as it always is—to consider 
Today, investors across the eurozone can earn a higher yield from stock dividends than from high yield bonds. European Central Bank monetary policy has compressed fixed income yields to the point where the spread (the difference) between high yield bonds and the region’s overall stock dividend yield is essentially zero. In the U.S. the spread between high yield bonds and the dividend yield on stocks is low relative to its historical average. In this environment, global equity income strategies, some which yield over 4%, become a compelling option for income seekers.
Dividends: Key to Total Return—Especially Internationally
Stock dividends have historically played a large part in driving equity returns. They have contributed over 50% of U.S. equities’ total return since the early 1870s. The impact of dividends on international equity returns is even more pronounced, thanks to dividend yields that are often higher abroad. Since 2011, dividends have accounted for essentially all of emerging market equity returns and approximately 70% of developed international equity returns (see chart below). While many investors consider the potential for capital appreciation to be the primary reason behind owning stocks, it’s the dividend that can, at times, provide the most benefit to investors—especially given today’s investment landscape.
In today’s world of slowing growth, high asset valuations and low interest rates, global equity income strategies demand attention from investors seeking attractive income and total returns.
“The only thing that gives me pleasure is to see my dividend coming in.”



          custom text        


Thank you for your comments!
Subscribe now to stay up-to-date with Thornburg’s Blogs
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

Home
Inspiration for quarterly commentary topics can often come from the most unlikely of places. As I sat racking my brain for a fresh perspective on the municipal market, I received a call from a reporter. He mentioned that the people he speaks with regularly seem to have concerns about the municipal bond market. It seems they have all coalesced around everything from credit risk to interest rate risk. Despite those concerns, a record amount of money has poured into the asset class year to date. His question was simple: How do you reconcile overwhelming demand for municipal bonds with the concerns of municipal bond investors?
Interesting question, worthy of a quarterly commentary. Rather than droning on about how interest rates have changed over the quarter, it might be more helpful to take a look at some of those common concerns and determine which are overblown and which investors should be mindful of.
Municipal Bond Supply and Demand
Municipal investors tend to be overly sensitive to supply trends. The common refrain being that a big supply year is bearish for bond prices and vice versa. While that is generally true, it negates the other half of the equation. Demand, not supply, can be a large driver of total return, and that is exactly what the market has experienced thus far in 2019. A record $45 billion has poured into the municipal market since the beginning of the year.
Forty-five billion dollars is a lot of money. So much so, it represents roughly 6% of all assets in municipal bond mutual funds. So much so, that demand, not fundamentals, has been the driver of asset appreciation throughout the year. That should be troubling. As investors, we like fundamentals to move asset prices. If you were to invest in Apple, and Apple sells more iPhones and the stock appreciates, we would consider the stock appreciation to be for the right reasons. When price is driven by factors other than fundamental value, the potential for a reversal tends to be high. We would recommend caution when investing in a market where fundamental improvement isn’t the reason for price appreciation.
SALT and the California Conundrum
At least part of the increase in demand for municipal paper was driven by fears over the SALT deduction cap. Faced with an ever-increasing tax bill, investors in high-tax states flocked to the municipal bond market. In no place is that truer than California. For many investors in the state, investments in the California municipal bond market no longer make economic sense. In some cases, it hasn’t for quite some time. The table below shows the yield for a recent California municipal issuance for Berkeley Unified School District (USD) vs. U.S. Treasury securities in similar years (remember treasuries are tax-exempt at the state and local level but are still subject to federal income taxes).
*Assumes top Federal tax bracket of 37%

In every instance, the California investor would be better off investing in the U.S. Treasury on an after-tax basis, which assumes the highest Federal tax rate of 37%. Yet, money continues to flow into the California municipal bond market as investors make non-economic decisions. More troubling is the fact that non- economic decision making is not isolated to the California market. Therefore, we would recommend analyzing purchases based on after-tax yields and putting extra consideration in the risks and rewards being taking for each marginal dollar.
Macroeconomics and the Fed
Can you imagine anyone more terrified of a mean tweet than Jerome Powell? As recently as December 2018, the Federal Reserve seemed bound and determined to push interest rates higher. It took only a few angry tweets and some stock market volatility for a complete reversal of course. Now the world is convinced that not only is the Fed done raising rates, the market is placing a 100% probability that the Fed cuts rates by the end of the year.
Investors may be tempted to take more duration risk based on the prospect of a Fed cut. We would caution against that strategy. If 100% of the market believes an interest rate cut is coming, then it’s likely the information is being priced into the market and any upside associated with that trade has already been exhausted. The real risk is that the Fed does an about face again and rates remain stable. In our minds the duration trade has minimal upside and quite a bit of downside.
The reality is that the macroeconomic situation, at least from a data perspective, doesn’t seem markedly different from December 2018. The U.S. economy just added another 224,000 jobs and unemployment is 3.7%. Not long ago “full-employment” was thought to be around 5.5%.
Assuming the market is correct and the Fed cuts rates, what does that say about the economy? Essentially the Fed is making a statement that the U.S. cannot sustain itself at a 2% 10-year treasury yield. If the economy cannot function at a 2% 10-year, then assets prices are almost certainly inflated and credit spreads in fixed-income markets are way too tight.
Credit Risk
Much has been said surrounding the covenant- lite status of recent corporate debt issuance. Less has been said about the phenomenon in the municipal bond market. Credit security packages are getting weaker. Net revenue covenants, liquidity covenants, additional bonds tests and other protections granted to municipal investors are weakening. Anecdotally, we recently looked at a deal for Charleston Area Medical Center. The official statement contained this line:

“By the purchase of the series 2019A bonds […], each holder of the series 2019A bonds will be deemed to have consented to the release of the mortgage in accordance with the terms of the master indenture.”

By buying the bonds, investors were consenting to the release of their mortgage interest in the property. In addition, the official statement clearly dictates that an Event of Default does not occur until Charleston Area Medical Center fails to cover debt service for two years in a row. Essentially, the hospital has to stop paying for two consecutive years before bondholders are able to enforce any remedies.
From a legal perspective this is clearly a weaker credit than it used to be, yet Charleston Area Medical Center was able to issue debt at significantly lower yields than in the past. Much like the Berkeley USD example, this phenomenon isn’t unique to Charleston Area Medical Center. Investors are being asked to take more and more risk for less and less yield.
Conclusion
The municipal bond market is changing. Investors just haven’t realized it yet. Credit is weakening at a time when spreads are tightening. Markets such as California have dislocated from not just other better alternatives, but from reality. The Fed is at best schizophrenic and at worst reacting to the whims of 140 characters. And all the while, money continues to flow into municipal bonds.
At Thornburg we believe strongly in transparency and employ a “know what you own” philosophy. The overwhelming demand for municipal products has made it difficult to find value on a day-to-day basis. In our minds it has led to a mispricing of risk broadly. As such, we are running our portfolios more conservatively. Mindful of the fact that when price and fundamental value diverge there tends to be a reckoning. We are paying attention to all the above, deploying dollars where risk and return are aligned.
More than anything, demand will determine the prospect for total return through the rest of the year. If demand stays strong and valuation high, we will continue to do the prudent thing. Should demand fall off, we are well positioned to take advantage in each of the municipal portfolios.
Thank you for your continued trust.
–Nick Venditti
Performance data shown represents past performance and is no guarantee of future results. Investment return and principal value will fluctuate so shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost. Current performance may be lower or higher than quoted. For performance current to the most recent month end, see the 
The Fed is poised to join the global easing bandwagon, fueling a surge in risk asset prices. As market distortions from easy money grow, so does the importance of security selection and portfolio allocation.
The municipal bond market is changing. Investors just haven’t realized yet. In our minds, it has led to a mispricing of risk broadly. As such, we are running portfolios more conservatively. Mindful of the fact that when price and fundamental value diverge, there tends to be a reckoning.
From core bonds to dividend-income stocks, Thornburg takes an active approach to income investing. We get results by thinking and investing differently in our search for income around the world.
2018
2017
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
Lipper Fund Awards are granted annually to the fund in each Lipper classification that consistently delivered the strongest risk-adjusted performance (calculated with dividends reinvested and without sales charge). Fund Classification Awards are given for three-year, five-year, and ten-year periods. Thornburg did not win the award for any other time period. Past performance does not guarantee future results.


From Thomson Reuters Lipper Awards, © 2018 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Used by permission and protected by the Copyright Laws of the United States. The printing, copying, redistribution or retransmission of this Content without express permission is prohibited. www.lipperfundawards.com
Unless otherwise noted, the source of all data, charts, tables and graphs is Thornburg Investment Management, Inc., as of 6/30/19.
Investments carry risks, including possible loss of principal.  Portfolios investing in bonds have the same interest rate, inflation, and credit risks that are associated with the underlying bonds. The value of bonds will fluctuate relative to changes in interest rates, decreasing when interest rates rise.  This effect is more pronounced for longer-term bonds.  Unlike bonds, bond funds have ongoing fees and expenses. Investments in lower rated and unrated bonds may be more sensitive to default, downgrades, and market volatility; these investments may also be less liquid than higher rated bonds. Investments in derivatives are subject to the risks associated with the securities or other assets underlying the pool of securities, including illiquidity and difficulty in valuation. Investments in the Fund are not FDIC insured, nor are they bank deposits or guaranteed by a bank or any other entity.
The views expressed are subject to change and do not necessarily reflect the views of Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. This information should not be relied upon as a recommendation or investment advice and is not intended to predict the performance of any investment or market.
Class I shares may not be available to all investors. Minimum investments for the I share class may be higher than those for other classes.
Diversification does not assure or guarantee better performance and cannot eliminate the risk of investment losses.
Income earned from municipal bonds is exempt from regular federal and in some cases, state and local income tax. Income may be subject to the alternative minimum tax (AMT).
There is no guarantee that the Fund will meet its investment objectives.
Please see our  
Thornburg mutual funds are distributed by Thornburg Securities Corporation.
Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. mutual funds are sold through investment professionals including investment advisors, brokerage firms, bank trust departments, trust companies and certain other financial intermediaries. Thornburg Securities Corporation (TSC) does not act as broker of record for investors.
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

Home
Global equity markets continued their 2019 advance in the second quarter but May witnessed the first material market drawdown of the year, triggered by collapsing trade talks between the U.S. and China. Markets had assumed that the talks were progressing well and nearing a successful conclusion, based on comments coming out of negotiations, but on May 5th President Trump threatened to raise tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese goods, from 10% to 25%, and to place new tariffs of 25% on the remaining $325 billion of Chinese products, claiming that China had reneged on previous commitments. Along with increasing political tension, investors also saw macroeconomic data that pointed to a further loss of momentum across the global economy. The market was firmly in “risk off” mode and the MSCI All Country World Index (ACWI) was down 5.93% in May, with emerging market equities underperforming developed market equities. Global government bond yields fell in May and June with expectations of earlier and more aggressive rate cuts from the U.S. Fed. With the promise of a resumption of trade negotiations between China and the U.S. after the G-20 Summit, markets rebounded in June and finished positively for the quarter.
For the quarter the Thornburg Better World International Fund (I shares) returned 4.32% versus 2.98% for the MSCI ACWI ex-U.S. Index and 3.68% for the MSCI EAFE Index. Year to date, the fund has returned 14.87% versus 13.60% for the MSCI ACWI ex-U.S. Index and 14.03% for the MSCI EAFE Index.
For the quarter and year to date, the portfolio’s outperformance versus its benchmark index on a sector basis has been driven almost entirely by bottom-up stock selection, which is central to the fund’s investment process.
Top Performers:
Bottom Performers:
Thank you for investing alongside us in the Thornburg Better World International Fund.
Performance data shown represents past performance and is no guarantee of future results. Investment return and principal value will fluctuate so shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost. Current performance may be lower or higher than quoted. For performance current to the most recent month end, see the 
The Fed is poised to join the global easing bandwagon, fueling a surge in risk asset prices. As market distortions from easy money grow, so does the importance of security selection and portfolio allocation.
Global equity markets continued their 2019 advance in the second quarter but May witnessed the first material market drawdown of the year, triggered by renewed trade friction between the U.S. and China and related concerns about global growth.
Thornburg's disciplined, bottom-up research has driven our collaborative investment process for more than three decades. The results: Many Thornburg funds are highly rated by Morningstar and Lipper.
The investment methodology and philosophy that drives Thornburg Better World International Fund is captured in this interview with Portfolio Managers Di Zhou and Jim Gassman.
After a turbulent May, China and emerging markets appear poised to resume their ascent from the first quarter, even as trade-related air pockets remain likely. 
Unless otherwise noted, the source of all data, charts, tables and graphs is Thornburg Investment Management, Inc., as of 6/30/19.
Investments carry risks, including possible loss of principal.  Additional risks may be associated with investments outside the United States, especially in emerging markets, including currency fluctuations, illiquidity, volatility, and political and economic risks.  Investments in small- and mid-capitalization companies may increase the risk of greater price fluctuations. Investments in the Fund are not FDIC insured, nor are they bank deposits or guaranteed by a bank or any other entity.
The views expressed are subject to change and do not necessarily reflect the views of Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. This information should not be relied upon as a recommendation or investment advice and is not intended to predict the performance of any investment or market.
Any securities, sectors, or countries mentioned are for illustration purposes only. Holdings are subject to change. Under no circumstances does the information contained within represent a recommendation to buy or sell any security.
The performance of any index is not indicative of the performance of any particular investment. Unless otherwise noted, index returns reflect the reinvestment of income dividends and capital gains, if any, but do not reflect fees, brokerage commissions or other expenses of investing. Investors may not make direct investments into any index.
There is no guarantee that the Fund will meet its investment objectives.
Please see our  
Thornburg mutual funds are distributed by Thornburg Securities Corporation.
Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. mutual funds are sold through investment professionals including investment advisors, brokerage firms, bank trust departments, trust companies and certain other financial intermediaries. Thornburg Securities Corporation (TSC) does not act as broker of record for investors.
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

Home
The S&P 500 Index returned 4.30% during the second quarter, with low volatility stocks leading the way, growth stocks just behind and value stocks lagging. The Thornburg Value Fund had a disappointing quarter, up just 1.59% (I shares). For the first half of 2019 that puts the fund up 15.84%, a good absolute return, though trailing the index return of 18.54%.
What We See
The two most interesting things we see today are the wild outperformance of low volatility stocks, especially over the last year, and the associated underperformance of value stocks.
Chart 1
Chart 2
Chart 3
To frame the current environment, we must discuss interest rates. As of this writing, the U.S. 10-year Treasury sits just above 2%, down from 3.25% last fall. Globally, record amounts are invested in negative yielding bonds today (approximately USD 13 trillion). By one measure, global interest rates are at 5,000 year lows.
Many investors use discounted cash flow (DCF) or dividend discount models (DDM) to value their equity investments. Both are highly dependent on two variables, the projected constant growth rate in perpetuity and constant cost of equity capital. As the risk-free rate declines, so does the cost of equity capital. Funny things begin to happen as investors apply forever low risk-free rates into their valuation models. The implied P/E valuation for businesses that are projected to grow, forever, can go almost parabolic. This may explain some of the valuation discrepancy that we’re seeing in growth and low volatility companies relative to the rest of the market.
Interestingly, as the discount rate declines, the portion of valuation driven by cash flows further out in the future increases. From the AllianceBernstein research report 
Investors, especially factor ETF investors, seem to be using a shortcut to figure out which companies will grow fast, forever. They have been plowing money into S&P 500 low volatility ETFs, which simply track the performance for the 100 least volatile stocks in the S&P 500 Index as measured by trailing 12-month standard deviation. It also happens that these ETFs have performed well, of late, and according to Empirical Research Partners report 
Either way, we think the valuation dispersion is misguided, and has left many companies with great prospects looking very cheap. We’ve long said that defensives look expensive to us—and now, even more so. We work hard to invest in a balanced portfolio and have a large component of stable and consistent businesses, but we do tend to own less “expensive defensives” than the overall market. This has weighed on performance recently, but we believe it sets the portfolio up well looking ahead.
We also tend not to focus on DCF or DDM valuation approaches in our valuation work. We rely more heavily on tying our adjusted earnings forecasts to the free-cash-flow generation capability of a business and calculating price targets based on a multiple of adjusted earnings a year or two into the future. We award higher multiples to businesses that we think will grow earnings faster or where we believe the earnings stream is more predictable (i.e. less cyclical). The work that we do on “reason for being” and “competitive dynamics” support our forward earnings projections. On our work, our portfolio of investments looks as attractive as ever vs. the S&P 500 Index, while maintaining a healthy allocation to Consistent Earning businesses that should hold up better in a downturn.
The Quarter
Sector allocation, overall, didn’t impact relative performance materially during the quarter. Though our overweight allocation to financials helped, our underweight to information technology, our cash position and our overweight to energy investments were each a drag on relative performance.
All of our short-term relative underperformance during the quarter was driven by stock selection within sectors. While stock selection aided returns in the energy and consumer discretionary sectors, poor short-term stock performance in the information technology, communication services and health care sectors were a drag on relative returns. Our top and bottom performers list will highlight many of the individual drivers—though our weakest individual contributor during the quarter, Pure Storage, was up a lot (35%) during the first quarter of the year.
Second-Quarter Top Performers
Second-Quarter Bottom Performers
Thank you, as always, for your trust and confidence.
1. Speech by Mr. Andrew G Haldane, Executive Director and Chief Economist of the Bank of England, at the University of East Anglia, Norwich, 17 February 2016.
2. Inigo Fraser-Jenkins, Mark Diver, Alla Harmsworth, Sarah McCarthy, CFA, Global Quantitative Strategy: Has Value Met Its Waterloo?, AllianceBernstein research, 19 June 2019.
3. Rochester Cahan, Yu Bai, Stock Selection: Research and Results, Small-Caps Versus Large-Caps: Give the Little Guy a Chance? Defensive ETF Flows Reveal Extreme Pessimism, February 2019.
Performance data shown represents past performance and is no guarantee of future results. Investment return and principal value will fluctuate so shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost. Current performance may be lower or higher than quoted. For performance current to the most recent month end, see the 
We work hard to invest in a balanced portfolio and have a large component of stable and consistent businesses, but we do tend to own less “expensive defensives” than the overall market.
The Fed is poised to join the global easing bandwagon, fueling a surge in risk asset prices. As market distortions from easy money grow, so does the importance of security selection and portfolio allocation.
While deep industry knowledge is very important, investment outcomes are even more important. We believe the interdisciplinary approach leads to better investment decisions because we’re evaluating opportunities across sectors...
Mutual Fund Tax Information
Even before the market selloff, downtrodden value stocks were perking up as pricey growth stocks stumbled. But durable index-level shifts are harder to call than individual stock price disconnects from business fundamentals.
Unless otherwise noted, the source of all data, charts, tables and graphs is Thornburg Investment Management, Inc., as of 6/30/19.
Investments carry risks, including possible loss of principal.  Additional risks may be associated with investments outside the United States, especially in emerging markets, including currency fluctuations, illiquidity, volatility, and political and economic risks.  Investments in small- and mid-capitalization companies may increase the risk of greater price fluctuations. Investments in the Fund are not FDIC insured, nor are they bank deposits or guaranteed by a bank or any other entity.
The views expressed are subject to change and do not necessarily reflect the views of Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. This information should not be relied upon as a recommendation or investment advice and is not intended to predict the performance of any investment or market.
Any securities, sectors, or countries mentioned are for illustration purposes only. Holdings are subject to change. Under no circumstances does the information contained within represent a recommendation to buy or sell any security.
Funds invested in a limited number of holdings may expose an investor to greater volatility.
Notable purchases and sales includes material transactions other than recently purchased securities, which may be excluded for best execution purposes.
The performance of any index is not indicative of the performance of any particular investment. Unless otherwise noted, index returns reflect the reinvestment of income dividends and capital gains, if any, but do not reflect fees, brokerage commissions or other expenses of investing. Investors may not make direct investments into any index.
There is no guarantee that the Fund will meet its investment objectives.
Please see our  
Thornburg mutual funds are distributed by Thornburg Securities Corporation.
Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. mutual funds are sold through investment professionals including investment advisors, brokerage firms, bank trust departments, trust companies and certain other financial intermediaries. Thornburg Securities Corporation (TSC) does not act as broker of record for investors.
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

The Fed is poised to join the global easing bandwagon, fueling a surge in risk asset prices. As market distortions from easy money grow, so does the importance of security selection and portfolio allocation.
Markets fully expect the U.S. Federal Reserve to cut its benchmark rate at the end of this month for the first time since 2007, and the main question debated among Fed watchers is whether it will reduce the Fed funds rate a quarter or a half point.
Two other questions, though, should be of greater importance to investors. Does the Fed, which insists that it remains data dependent in conducting monetary policy, actually need to cut? The upper bound of the target rate, at 2.5%, is still less than half of its level 12 years ago. Secondly, how should investors think about portfolio allocation in a world of low, and in some places, negative policy rates?
U.S. economic conditions don’t necessarily indicate more Fed stimulus is needed when policy remains at historically accommodative levels. Take a look at the data. First-quarter economic growth clocked in at 3.1%, and while it’s expected to slow to 1.8% in the second quarter, full-year 2019 GDP is currently forecast to grow a quite decent 2.5%. At 3.7%, unemployment is at a five-decade low, and annual wage growth is up 3.2%. Consumer spending is slated to run 2.4% in 2019. U.S. equity indices have been hovering at record highs and financial conditions, as measured by the Chicago Fed, are near record “loose” lows.
To be sure, the front end of the yield curve inverted in the spring. Historically, that’s a signal recession is likely in the next year or so. Core PCE, the Fed’s preferred inflation measure, has recently been measured at a plodding 1.6%, which is below the monetary authority’s 2% target. Importantly, five-year forward inflation expectations have also been coming up short of late. Private non-residential fixed investment has been slipping as well. Fed Chairman Jerome Powell pointed to economic risks from trade disputes and slowing global growth as a big focus of concern.
The eurozone has seen significant deceleration in growth after energy prices spiked in the first quarter, and exports to China, which hit its slowest growth in three decades in the second quarter, dropped. Speculation is growing that the European Central Bank could lower in the next month or two its already negative key rate and possibly restart bond purchases after ending them last December. Much will depend on whether Germany’s sluggish economy, the region’s largest, stalled in the second quarter.
An “Insurance Cut”  
New York Fed President John Williams seemed to suggest on July 18 that a bigger, 50-basis-point cut was in order, while Fed Vice-Chairman Richard Clarida the same day said the Fed should cut preemptively, before the economy loses steam, so that growth stays “on an even keel.” Clarida told Fox Business News: “You don’t need to wait until things get so bad to have a dramatic series of rate cuts.” The Fed, he added, “needs to make a decision based on where we think the economy may be heading, and, importantly, where the risks to the economy are lined up.”
Perhaps those risks aren’t quite as balanced as the Fed would like, so an “insurance cut” is in order, as Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard, a voting member of the Fed’s monetary policy board, has advocated in recent comments to financial media. Bullard explicitly argued that a quarter-point reduction would be appropriate at the July meeting. Interestingly, after Williams’ remarks last week, the NY Fed issued a statement tempering them, whipsawing markets that had priced a 50-basis-point cut back to a 25-basis-point baseline.
In any event, what if the risks to the U.S. and global economies come more from frothy, out-of-sync financial markets, which have been driven by extraordinarily low or negative developed world rates?
Since Powell’s increasingly dovish turns in January and again in June, the S&P 500 Index has produced a year-to-date total return of 20%, despite what’s shaping up to be two consecutive quarters of corporate net profit margin declines. Meanwhile, the Bloomberg Barclays U.S. Aggregate Index has returned 6.2% so far in 2019. The positive correlation is unusual but then again much the same dynamic is evident in overseas markets, where other central banks have already cut policy rates nearly 20 times in 2019 and market distortions in some regions have mushroomed.
Negative-Yielding Corporate Bonds; Negative-Yielding Junk?
Given the monetary gusher from low and negative policy rates, the stock of outstanding negative-yielding developed market bonds has ballooned to nearly $13 trillion, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch, which also notes that more than a quarter of European investment grade corporate bonds now sport negative yields. Bizarrely, more than a dozen euro-denominated junk bonds trade at negative yields, according to Bloomberg, meaning investors pay, rather than being paid, to assume default risk on speculative-grade paper.
What’s the downside protection, not to speak of return potential, in fixed income in this unprecedented market environment? It’s hard to tell. As Thornburg CEO and Portfolio Manager Jason Brady points out, “accommodative monetary policies have driven risk-free rates to levels so low that they don’t create a reliable foundation from which to price risk assets. Do yields accurately reflect risks?”
The question is crucial for investors looking to generate alpha, or excess return, which we believe can best be had by strong individual security selection and sound portfolio allocation. So, as the Fed undertakes an insurance cut, investors ought to consider whether high-quality, very expensive, low- or negative-yielding fixed income provides the portfolio insurance it should. They should also weigh prospects for equities experiencing price gains on expanding valuation multiples, rather than earnings.
Opportunities for upside capture and downside protection always exist among carefully selected stocks and bonds. But it’s important to identify the relative value between them. Thornburg CIO Brian McMahon notes, for example, that Royal Dutch Shell’s 0.75% coupon bond due in 2028 currently trades at a premium, to yield just around 30 basis points. By contrast, the dividend yield on its equity stands around 5.75%. Shell is repurchasing its stock, not only reducing the net dividend payout expenditure ahead, but also potentially supporting its share price via a reduced number of outstanding shares.
Equity Ballast
What kind of ballast might a Shell security provide to a portfolio? If past is prologue, it may be instructive to examine the market rout last December, when Shell’s ADR shed 3.5%, while the MSCI EAFE Index fell 5%, and the S&P 500 dropped 9.2%. The price on that 2028 0.75% coupon bond rose to EUR95.615 from EUR94.695. Not bad, but its bond yield still paled in comparison to its equity yield. True, both the S&P 500 and the MSCI EAFE have outperformed Shell’s stock so far this year. But this kind of insurance can not only enable a portfolio to participate in up markets but also bolster it when the inevitable downdrafts blow through, helping it compound off a higher base.
Market volatility, as measured by the CBOE Volatility Index, has been trending down over the last few months. The VIX, as it’s known, recently stood at 14.5, which is below the 12-month 16.4 average and the 36.1 high last December. But the newly rising tide of central bank liquidity inflating asset prices can make for a weak foundation supporting the equity and bond price gains. History suggests volatility can return and spread quickly, particularly when excesses in risk asset markets proliferate.
Benchmark agnostic, flexible portfolios populated with highly select, attractively priced stocks and bonds can be greater than the sum of their parts. Both the individual merits and broader portfolio fit of each security should reflect differentiated, but complementary risk and return characteristics, helping position a portfolio to better manage the inevitable turns of market tides.



          custom text        


Thank you for your comments!
Subscribe now to stay up-to-date with Thornburg’s Blogs
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

The Fed is tasked with keeping prices stable, unemployment low and long-term interest rates moderate. The monetary alchemy with such unstable elements is coming under review.
 
The U.S. Federal Reserve can hardly be blamed for thinking about moving its monetary policy goalposts, or at least the one targeting a specific inflation level. After all, if the Fed has long been unable to consistently spur annual inflation to run at the desired 2% pace, it’s sensible to examine why, consider whether an alternative inflation-targeting framework might make sense, and perhaps ask whether its dual, if not triple mandate, is coherent and achievable.
The Fed’s monetary policy coterie, the Federal Open Markets Committee (FOMC), held a June 4-5 conference at its Chicago branch to review monetary policy since the Financial Crisis. Stable prices are one statutory objective Congress mandated in the Federal Reserve Act. “Maximum employment” and “moderate long-term interest rates” are the other two. How has the U.S. monetary authority done?
On the surface, not bad. U.S. unemployment topped out at 10% in 2009 and has since fallen to less than 4% as the Fed slashed its key rate to near zero and kept it there till late 2015, while more than quintupling the size of its balance sheet through asset purchases known as quantitative easing (QE).
But wage growth has averaged just 2.3% annually over the period, while the core Personal Consumption Expenditure Index, the Fed’s preferred inflation measure, has averaged a below-target 1.6% yearly. Worryingly, both market- and survey-based inflation expectations have also been steadily coming down. So has the Fed’s own median long-term neutral rate projection, at which unemployment and inflation are thought to be optimally balanced: the current 2.5% upper bound of the Federal funds rate stands just a quarter-point below the long-run neutral projection.
 
Source: Bloomberg


 
Source: Bloomberg


History Not as Good a Guide Nowadays
That doesn’t leave the Fed much room to cut rates to lift inflation to the targeted level or to boost a flagging economy before it falls into recession and employment retreats from maximum levels. As for moderate long-term rates, perhaps, like inflation, they’ve become too moderate. The term premium, or the compensation investors want to take on the interest rate risk of longer-term securities, has been close to zero or negative since 2012, when the Fed formally adopted its 2% inflation target. Indeed, the New York Fed’s 10-year Treasury Term Premium hit a record low -0.7897% in late May, just as the U.S. 10-year Treasury yield dropped a full percentage point to 2.26% from 3.26% in October of last year.
Source: Federal Reserve Bank of New York


Meanwhile, the market seems unsure about the significance of a modest inversion of the yield curve after three-month rates just exceeded 10-year rates by a dozen basis points. Historically, that usually signals a recession not far down the road. “But history isn’t as good a guide nowadays,” Thornburg portfolio manager Jeff Klingelhofer says. “The Fed has suppressed the term premium with QE and low benchmark rates. But it’s not just the Fed. Foreign demand is also robust, with U.S. rates meaningfully higher than the negative rates in Europe and Japan. Treasuries also draw safe-haven flows out of emerging markets. Capital requirements at banking institutions and the use of Treasuries as collateral in derivatives markets are also driving up demand,” all of which pushes prices higher and yields lower.
While concerns about the tit-for-tat tariffs that the U.S. and China are slapping on each other’s goods imports are compounding worries about global growth, a U.S. recession isn’t fast approaching, despite the yield curve inversion and negative term premium. “Bonds are just doing mathematically what they’re supposed to do,” Klingelhofer points out, adding that the U.S. economy may be slowing, but with growth still projected at 2.6% this year and 1.9% in 2020, it’s not stumbling.
Yet that begs the question about the Fed’s mandate. Unemployment is at a five-decade low; annual wage growth has picked up to average 3.4% over the first four months of 2019, with the lowest income brackets posting the highest gains; consumer debt isn’t at alarming levels and consumer confidence is strong. Toward the end of a rough May, the S&P 500 Index was off 6.6% from its record high a month earlier, leaving it with a total return of nearly 10% so far this year. Ester George, head of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, warned that leaving rates at still accommodative levels risks asset price bubbles, financial instability and recession. So why is the bond market rallying, the yield curve inverting and Fed funds futures reflecting at least two rate cuts by the end of December?
Fears of a Deflationary Feedback Loop
Rather than the inflationary pressures that 3.6% unemployment and rising wages should create in theory, the bond market appears convinced the Fed is increasingly worried about below-target inflation and especially weak inflation expectations. In simultaneous contrast to George’s remarks, Fed Governor Lael Brainard recently argued the Fed should let inflation “slightly” overshoot its target “for a couple of years” because the U.S. economy’s “new normal” is less influenced by a strong labor market. A handful of other FMOC members have also effectively argued for adjusting the mandate to allow for an average inflation-targeting framework that would permit inflation to run above target until inflation expectations start to converge with it. They’re concerned about disinflation, or slowing inflation, and especially deflation, or falling prices.
Several difficult problems emanate from a disinflationary, not to speak of a Japan-style deflationary mindset, which favors saving over spending as a currency’s purchasing power increases. That, in turn, tends to exacerbate unemployment as recessionary pressures build while consumption declines. “The Fed is very fearful of that feedback loop,” says Klingelhofer. “If you accept the world has deflationary forces such as demographics (aging populations across most regions) and technology advances, there’s a strong case for pursuing inflation.”
But careful what you wish for, Klingelhofer warns. Inflationary forces may only be masked by “Wright’s Law” of falling unit costs amid production improvements and economies of scale. Decent U.S. economic growth coupled with twin fiscal and current account deficits, a fast-growing national debt load in the wake of the 2017 tax reform and the potential change toward a more permissive inflation-targeting framework via a lower-for-even-longer rate regime could undercut the U.S. dollar strength of the last couple years, paving the way for imported inflation. What if economic growth then weakens amid still frothy risk asset prices?
Timing the Punchbowl
Will the Fed cut rates to boost a weakening economy, or raise them to fight budding inflation and the potential financial market excesses that overly moderate long-term rates create? “If you let inflation run above target, you also let financial bubbles build,” Klingelhofer points out. “How do you square moderate long-term rates, price stability and a sustainably strong economy?”
The FMOC wasn’t expecting to answer that question at its Chicago meeting, and any change in the inflation framework wouldn’t come until next year in any event. But its publicity of the forum at least suggests loose monetary policy until inflation not only hits the 2% target but perhaps exceeds it, too. An elixir of monetary and fiscal stimulus to juice inflation and the economy could make the Fed’s third mandate on moderate long-term rates harder to pull off. Removing the punchbowl in a timely manner is difficult, as past bursts of market bubbles show.
“We continue to believe we aren’t imminently heading toward recession,” Klingelhofer says. “Yet we also believe portfolios should be cautiously positioned.”



          custom text        


Thank you for your comments!
Subscribe now to stay up-to-date with Thornburg’s Blogs
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

Home
Thornburg Investment Income Builder is a globally oriented portfolio whose aim is to provide an attractive and growing income stream, with capital appreciation, over time. A dynamic blend of global dividend-paying stocks and bonds of virtually any type, Income Builder is broadly flexible in pursuit of its objectives.
 “The fund’s goals are to provide interesting current income, and over the long term, to grow that income on a per-share basis. If we’re able to find companies that show both an ability and willingness to pay shareholders a
— Brian McMahon
Global Diversification Can Improve Yield
Investors sometimes think of high dividend yields as limited to the utilities or telecom sectors, but we search for promising dividend payers in a range of sectors and geographies.
Fixed income plays a supporting role in the portfolio, aiding in income production and potentially muting volatility over time. And in the Income Builder portfolio, we don’t limit ourselves to bonds of a particular type or credit quality in the search for the best risk/reward trade-off. Bonds have ranged from under 10% today to more than 40% of fund assets.
Investors tend to focus on 
If one were to invest a hypothetical $100,000 in a security with a current yield of 5% at purchase, and income grew by 50% over time, the 
With both declining price and declining income, an investor can experience a current yield that remains level. Similarly, with a rising price and flat income, current yield would decline. So as investors choose which vehicles to use for income, it’s important that they understand 
In an era of low interest rates, the right equity dividend strategy can provide the income and total return that investors seek.
The Fed is poised to join the global easing bandwagon, fueling a surge in risk asset prices. As market distortions from easy money grow, so does the importance of security selection and portfolio allocation.
Globally Diversified Income Brochure
When rates rise, many fixed income and dividend portfolios suffer. That’s why you need to include allocations to investment strategies that can do well during periods of rising rates – like today.
Investment Income Builder Fund, Dividends Matter.
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

Home
The Thornburg International Growth Fund returned 1.57% (I shares) in the second quarter of 2019, trailing its benchmark, the MSCI All Country World ex-U.S. Growth Index, which gained 4.35%. This brings the 2019 year-to-date return to 16.86% for the fund (I shares), versus 17.20% for the index. Since inception, the Thornburg International Growth Fund has returned 7.28% versus 3.38% for the index.
Although international equities finished the quarter in positive territory, markets globally experienced an acute bout of volatility in May as the U.S. unexpectedly ratcheted up trade tensions with two of its largest trading partners, Mexico and China. Markets were further pressured as investors digested soft economic data, suggesting weakening trends in global growth. We saw Treasury and other foreign sovereign yields decrease notably as investors clamored for safe haven assets. It was only after trade tensions de-escalated as tariffs were called off on Mexico and a temporary truce was achieved with China at the G-20 Summit that markets settled and turned. Furthermore, U.S. and European central bank policy makers signaled a more accommodative policy stance, helping to further boost investor confidence. Uncertainty lingers around the eventual outcome of trade negotiations and continues to weigh on valuations of certain foreign equities. The global economy seems late in the cycle, but whether growth remains resilient, albeit at lower levels, with the proper policy and political actions or whether an already softening economy will be further harmed by adverse events remains to be seen.
Top performers for the quarter included German digital payments platform Wirecard AG, global footwear and apparel company adidas AG, Dubai-based payments solutions provider Network International, global payments company Mastercard, Inc. and U.K. investment management services provider Hargreaves Lansdown plc.
Wirecard shares rallied in the quarter as SoftBank announced a €900m investment in the company, representing about a 5.6% stake, via a convertible bond issue. Wirecard also reported financial results reflecting better-than-expected organic revenue growth as well as a slight upgrade to fullyear EBITDA guidance. Adidas shares have re-rated as investors have come to better appreciate its expanding economic moat and its positioning as a long-term winner in a structurally attractive global sportswear market. Adidas remains well placed to outgrow the broader market, expand margins and return meaningful capital to shareholders.
Network International is a recent IPO in which we participated, and it has risen nicely from the offering price. We are excited about its prospects and the company should deliver a consistent and durable growth profile as it addresses the digital payments opportunity in relatively underpenetrated geographies in the Middle East and Africa.
Mastercard continues to execute well with robust organic growth and improving margins and has a long duration secular growth opportunity ahead as payments steadily shift toward more digital forms over time.
Hargreaves Lansdown rose as it reported results that exhibited a resilient level of flows, taking the stock past our price target.
Bottom performers this quarter included U.K. online food delivery marketplace Just Eat plc, Chinese search engine operator Baidu, Inc., U.K.-based fashion e-commerce retailer ASOS plc, leading global luxury goods e-commerce platform Farfetch Ltd. and Swedish online retailer Boozt AB.
Just Eat shares declined as the company reported order growth in the U.K. that fell slightly short of expectations due to unfavorable weather and Easter timing. Furthermore, it was reported that Amazon is planning to invest $575 million into Deliveroo, a U.K.-based food delivery rival, ramping up competitive concerns.
Baidu fell as the company provided financial guidance to the markets that implies a troubling and dramatic slowdown in revenue growth in their core search business due to a combination of a challenging macro and competitive environment.
ASOS shares have suffered as retail and apparel market data from the U.K. and Germany suggest very weak industry growth and underlying consumer demand. Investors are also concerned that rumors of cost cutting and a restructuring plan at the company imply another profit warning.
Farfetch declined despite reporting strong first-quarter earnings on concerns about worsening macro trends in China, as well as trade war fears. For Farfetch and the luxury goods market overall, China is the most important and fastest-growing region, which underpins the long-term secular growth story but creates noise near term.
Boozt saw revenue growth fall short and although it re-iterated guidance for the full year, investors are increasingly cautious that the company can meet expectations, particularly on the margin front given the competitive retail environment and ongoing discounting seen across the industry.
Portfolio Activity
The fund experienced a relatively modest degree of turnover this quarter as we initiated four new positions and completely sold out of seven others.
One of the new portfolio additions this quarter was Capgemini, a French information technology services provider and consultant. We see Capgemini as an attractive means of achieving exposure to the theme of “Digital Transformation” that is currently reshaping various parts of the technology stack as well as how business gets done broadly. We see Digital Transformation as a long duration trend that has only recently started to inflect in terms of growth rates. Whereas businesses in the U.S. are more in the forefront of digital transformation, companies in Europe are generally much further behind, and Capgemini as a company with European roots and a broad European customer base is a natural partner to help companies achieve their digital goals. Although Capgemini’s digital mix trails its largest peer Accenture, the company is rapidly catching up and seeing growth rates of about 20% in this segment, which should reach over 50% of sales in the near term. Underlying execution at the company has been improving, as evidenced by improving growth rates and margin trends. We see valuation at too wide a discount relative to peers and digital transformation as a lasting tailwind that will drive sustained revenue and earnings growth over our investment horizon.
Outlook
Investors will be watching closely whether this latest ebb in trade tensions is just a temporary pause before talks break down as both sides take on entrenched positions or if parties are genuinely making progress toward a resolution that is ultimately in the interest of all groups involved and the global economy at large.
Although we are seeing a downtrend in various business and consumer confidence indicators, we remain optimistic that despite the continuing economic and trade risks, the global economy will prove more resilient than expected. Across the major developed markets, we see labor and employment conditions as healthy with broadly rising incomes. In the eurozone, for example, unemployment now stands at 7.6%, not far off from pre- crisis levels. Although select labor markets in advanced economies are considered tight, inflation trends broadly have been relatively muted. We believe this will allow the strong dovish signaling we’ve seen from major central banks to become more than mere words, but concrete policy actions.
The Chinese economy heavily influences global trade and business cycles and last year’s growth slowdown on the back of a deleveraging campaign was felt broadly. Although Chinese growth rates are on a structural downtrend, we expect recent stimulus actions to prop up growth. Initially, the measures should offset some of the slowdown and then on a lagged basis later this year, provide a tailwind that will translate into a slight rebound in global growth. Much of that incremental Chinese growth will benefit Europe, particularly the region’s industrial sectors, and the emerging markets more so than the U.S. We believe this backdrop helps the case for favoring select foreign equities with strong fundamentals.
As we enter late-cycle conditions, a slowing global economy appears underway. We believe these conditions will favor stock selection, and the companies that will outperform are the ones we tend to favor: high-quality growth companies that can transcend the economic cycle through secular growth opportunities, superior execution and growing economic moats.
Through our repeatable bottom-up process that relies on deep fundamental research, we are, even in this environment, finding opportunities to deploy capital into businesses with franchise characteristics and durable growth drivers that can deliver compelling risk-adjusted returns over time.
We thank you for investing alongside us in the Thornburg International Growth Fund.
Performance data shown represents past performance and is no guarantee of future results. Investment return and principal value will fluctuate so shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost. Current performance may be lower or higher than quoted. For performance current to the most recent month end, see the 
The Fed is poised to join the global easing bandwagon, fueling a surge in risk asset prices. As market distortions from easy money grow, so does the importance of security selection and portfolio allocation.
Through our repeatable bottom-up process that relies on deep fundamental research, we are, even in this environment, finding opportunities to deploy capital into businesses with franchise characteristics and durable growth drivers that can deliver compelling risk-adjusted returns over time.
As asset classes move ever more in tandem, "What can I add to my portfolio that has a low correlation?" is a question many diversification-seeking investors are finding increasingly difficult to answer.
2018
2015
2014
2013
Lipper Fund Awards are granted annually to the fund in each Lipper classification that consistently delivered the strongest risk-adjusted performance (calculated with dividends reinvested and without sales charge). Fund Classification Awards are given for three-year, five-year, and ten-year periods. Thornburg did not win the award for any other time period. Past performance does not guarantee future results.


From Thomson Reuters Lipper Awards, © 2018 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Used by permission and protected by the Copyright Laws of the United States. The printing, copying, redistribution or retransmission of this Content without express permission is prohibited. www.lipperfundawards.com
Unless otherwise noted, the source of all data, charts, tables and graphs is Thornburg Investment Management, Inc., as of 6/30/19.
Investments carry risks, including possible loss of principal.  Additional risks may be associated with investments outside the United States, especially in emerging markets, including currency fluctuations, illiquidity, volatility, and political and economic risks.  Investments in small- and mid-capitalization companies may increase the risk of greater price fluctuations. Investments in the Fund are not FDIC insured, nor are they bank deposits or guaranteed by a bank or any other entity.
The views expressed are subject to change and do not necessarily reflect the views of Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. This information should not be relied upon as a recommendation or investment advice and is not intended to predict the performance of any investment or market.
Any securities, sectors, or countries mentioned are for illustration purposes only. Holdings are subject to change. Under no circumstances does the information contained within represent a recommendation to buy or sell any security.
The performance of any index is not indicative of the performance of any particular investment. Unless otherwise noted, index returns reflect the reinvestment of income dividends and capital gains, if any, but do not reflect fees, brokerage commissions or other expenses of investing. Investors may not make direct investments into any index.
There is no guarantee that the Fund will meet its investment objectives.
Please see our  
Thornburg mutual funds are distributed by Thornburg Securities Corporation.
Thornburg Investment Management, Inc. mutual funds are sold through investment professionals including investment advisors, brokerage firms, bank trust departments, trust companies and certain other financial intermediaries. Thornburg Securities Corporation (TSC) does not act as broker of record for investors.
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

The Fed is poised to join the global easing bandwagon, fueling a surge in risk asset prices. As market distortions from easy money grow, so does the importance of security selection and portfolio allocation.
Markets fully expect the U.S. Federal Reserve to cut its benchmark rate at the end of this month for the first time since 2007, and the main question debated among Fed watchers is whether it will reduce the Fed funds rate a quarter or a half point.
Two other questions, though, should be of greater importance to investors. Does the Fed, which insists that it remains data dependent in conducting monetary policy, actually need to cut? The upper bound of the target rate, at 2.5%, is still less than half of its level 12 years ago. Secondly, how should investors think about portfolio allocation in a world of low, and in some places, negative policy rates?
U.S. economic conditions don’t necessarily indicate more Fed stimulus is needed when policy remains at historically accommodative levels. Take a look at the data. First-quarter economic growth clocked in at 3.1%, and while it’s expected to slow to 1.8% in the second quarter, full-year 2019 GDP is currently forecast to grow a quite decent 2.5%. At 3.7%, unemployment is at a five-decade low, and annual wage growth is up 3.2%. Consumer spending is slated to run 2.4% in 2019. U.S. equity indices have been hovering at record highs and financial conditions, as measured by the Chicago Fed, are near record “loose” lows.
To be sure, the front end of the yield curve inverted in the spring. Historically, that’s a signal recession is likely in the next year or so. Core PCE, the Fed’s preferred inflation measure, has recently been measured at a plodding 1.6%, which is below the monetary authority’s 2% target. Importantly, five-year forward inflation expectations have also been coming up short of late. Private non-residential fixed investment has been slipping as well. Fed Chairman Jerome Powell pointed to economic risks from trade disputes and slowing global growth as a big focus of concern.
The eurozone has seen significant deceleration in growth after energy prices spiked in the first quarter, and exports to China, which hit its slowest growth in three decades in the second quarter, dropped. Speculation is growing that the European Central Bank could lower in the next month or two its already negative key rate and possibly restart bond purchases after ending them last December. Much will depend on whether Germany’s sluggish economy, the region’s largest, stalled in the second quarter.
An “Insurance Cut”  
New York Fed President John Williams seemed to suggest on July 18 that a bigger, 50-basis-point cut was in order, while Fed Vice-Chairman Richard Clarida the same day said the Fed should cut preemptively, before the economy loses steam, so that growth stays “on an even keel.” Clarida told Fox Business News: “You don’t need to wait until things get so bad to have a dramatic series of rate cuts.” The Fed, he added, “needs to make a decision based on where we think the economy may be heading, and, importantly, where the risks to the economy are lined up.”
Perhaps those risks aren’t quite as balanced as the Fed would like, so an “insurance cut” is in order, as Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard, a voting member of the Fed’s monetary policy board, has advocated in recent comments to financial media. Bullard explicitly argued that a quarter-point reduction would be appropriate at the July meeting. Interestingly, after Williams’ remarks last week, the NY Fed issued a statement tempering them, whipsawing markets that had priced a 50-basis-point cut back to a 25-basis-point baseline.
In any event, what if the risks to the U.S. and global economies come more from frothy, out-of-sync financial markets, which have been driven by extraordinarily low or negative developed world rates?
Since Powell’s increasingly dovish turns in January and again in June, the S&P 500 Index has produced a year-to-date total return of 20%, despite what’s shaping up to be two consecutive quarters of corporate net profit margin declines. Meanwhile, the Bloomberg Barclays U.S. Aggregate Index has returned 6.2% so far in 2019. The positive correlation is unusual but then again much the same dynamic is evident in overseas markets, where other central banks have already cut policy rates nearly 20 times in 2019 and market distortions in some regions have mushroomed.
Negative-Yielding Corporate Bonds; Negative-Yielding Junk?
Given the monetary gusher from low and negative policy rates, the stock of outstanding negative-yielding developed market bonds has ballooned to nearly $13 trillion, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch, which also notes that more than a quarter of European investment grade corporate bonds now sport negative yields. Bizarrely, more than a dozen euro-denominated junk bonds trade at negative yields, according to Bloomberg, meaning investors pay, rather than being paid, to assume default risk on speculative-grade paper.
What’s the downside protection, not to speak of return potential, in fixed income in this unprecedented market environment? It’s hard to tell. As Thornburg CEO and Portfolio Manager Jason Brady points out, “accommodative monetary policies have driven risk-free rates to levels so low that they don’t create a reliable foundation from which to price risk assets. Do yields accurately reflect risks?”
The question is crucial for investors looking to generate alpha, or excess return, which we believe can best be had by strong individual security selection and sound portfolio allocation. So, as the Fed undertakes an insurance cut, investors ought to consider whether high-quality, very expensive, low- or negative-yielding fixed income provides the portfolio insurance it should. They should also weigh prospects for equities experiencing price gains on expanding valuation multiples, rather than earnings.
Opportunities for upside capture and downside protection always exist among carefully selected stocks and bonds. But it’s important to identify the relative value between them. Thornburg CIO Brian McMahon notes, for example, that Royal Dutch Shell’s 0.75% coupon bond due in 2028 currently trades at a premium, to yield just around 30 basis points. By contrast, the dividend yield on its equity stands around 5.75%. Shell is repurchasing its stock, not only reducing the net dividend payout expenditure ahead, but also potentially supporting its share price via a reduced number of outstanding shares.
Equity Ballast
What kind of ballast might a Shell security provide to a portfolio? If past is prologue, it may be instructive to examine the market rout last December, when Shell’s ADR shed 3.5%, while the MSCI EAFE Index fell 5%, and the S&P 500 dropped 9.2%. The price on that 2028 0.75% coupon bond rose to EUR95.615 from EUR94.695. Not bad, but its bond yield still paled in comparison to its equity yield. True, both the S&P 500 and the MSCI EAFE have outperformed Shell’s stock so far this year. But this kind of insurance can not only enable a portfolio to participate in up markets but also bolster it when the inevitable downdrafts blow through, helping it compound off a higher base.
Market volatility, as measured by the CBOE Volatility Index, has been trending down over the last few months. The VIX, as it’s known, recently stood at 14.5, which is below the 12-month 16.4 average and the 36.1 high last December. But the newly rising tide of central bank liquidity inflating asset prices can make for a weak foundation supporting the equity and bond price gains. History suggests volatility can return and spread quickly, particularly when excesses in risk asset markets proliferate.
Benchmark agnostic, flexible portfolios populated with highly select, attractively priced stocks and bonds can be greater than the sum of their parts. Both the individual merits and broader portfolio fit of each security should reflect differentiated, but complementary risk and return characteristics, helping position a portfolio to better manage the inevitable turns of market tides.



          custom text        


Thank you for your comments!
Subscribe now to stay up-to-date with Thornburg’s Blogs
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

After a turbulent May, China and emerging markets appear poised to resume their ascent from the first quarter, even as trade-related air pockets remain likely.
The spring exodus of investors from emerging market equities has spilled over into summer, as the U.S.-China trade conflict intensified and U.S. President Donald Trump briefly threatened to wield his tariff stick against Mexico. Investor anxiety is understandable, as “the trade friction undercuts growth in world trade volumes and delays investment decisions,” says Thornburg portfolio manager Charlie Wilson. “And that, in turn, compounds concerns about ebbing global economic growth.”
But those fleeing developing country assets would do well to consider the signals coming from monetary authorities in the U.S., China and elsewhere. Moreover, on both valuation and political risk metrics in a number of major emerging markets, the asset class remains compelling.
The Trump administration’s threats to raise the tariffs already in place on Chinese exports to the U.S., along with the short-lived warning of new taxes on imports from Mexico if it doesn’t do more to control undocumented migrants heading for its border with the U.S., has shaken investors. In May $7.4 billion flowed out of Chinese equities and another $7.2 billion exited other emerging market stocks, making for the biggest monthly outflow since June 2013, according to the Institute of International Finance. Meanwhile, Bank of America Merrill Lynch reports that in the week to June 5, another $2.1 billion fled emerging market equities funds.
Wilson, who runs strategies focused on emerging markets, and fellow Thornburg portfolio manager Lei Wang, whose strategies are international and can include developing countries, just returned from separate visits with numerous corporate executives in China. In addition to updates on current portfolio holdings and deep dives into prospective investments, they were able to survey the effectiveness of Beijing’s stimulus efforts, which Wilson had detailed in his 
Q: 
CW:
By early January, Fed Chairman Jerome Powell effectively made clear the Fed would pause its hiking cycle and also suggested its balance sheet contraction wasn’t on “autopilot.” It also seemed that a resolution of the U.S.-China trade conflict was near, lifting sentiment and risk assets globally. That reversed in May, when the trade negotiations broke down and U.S. economic data started showing signs of weakness. The May labor market report came in much weaker than forecast, driving up market expectations that the Fed would cut rates at least once this year. Dovish comments from a handful of Fed officials also boosted hopes that U.S. monetary easing is on the way, which explains the pop in risk assets earlier this month. A more accommodative Fed reduces the dollar headwind that tends to mask strong emerging market earnings in local currency terms and allows developing country central banks to gradually ease their own monetary policies amid generally tepid inflation.
Q:
LW:
There are also the stimulus efforts. China’s central bank has eased policy on a number of fronts, from interest rates to lower bank reserve requirements. And the government has also lowered taxes, corporate pension contributions and introduced more export rebates for companies affected by the trade dispute. Still, investments focused on the Chinese consumer should prove more resilient to trade disruptions. Forward earnings estimates on many of them reflect double-digit earnings growth in dollar terms, and valuations aren’t overly demanding. But as Chinese stocks have had a good run overall it’s important to be selective and pick your shots carefully. The rally earlier this year was helpful, but so was the retreat in May, given the opportunities to get back into select stocks at better price points. We’ve trimmed our portfolio weighting to China, but still have meaningful exposure to Chinese stocks.
CW: 
That’s especially true now that the dollar strength of the last few years looks likely to lift with the Fed making more accommodative noises and Fed funds futures pricing in a couple rate cuts before year end. And that’s given cover for central banks in India, the Philippines, Australia and New Zealand to cut their benchmark rates.
LW: 
Q:
CW: 
LW:



          custom text        


Thank you for your comments!
Subscribe now to stay up-to-date with Thornburg’s Blogs
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences

Big-ticket, ultra-short notes force muni SMAs with low minimums to buy longer-term paper at rich prices, likely giving clients more heartburn than total return.
Are tax-paying municipal market bond investors in smaller separately managed accounts being well served? Perhaps not. A recent anomaly in pricing of ultra-short and longer-term muni paper starkly illustrates the challenges facing SMAs that have modest minimum investment requirements.
Although the pricing aberration has abated somewhat, investors and financial advisors in smaller muni SMAs are likely still seeing their total return prospects strained if their accounts are stocked with pricey longer-term paper yielding the same as the ultra-short notes.
At the end of April, yields on tax-exempt muni issues known as variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), which reset daily or weekly, effectively matched the roughly 2.30% yields on AAA-rated muni bonds maturing in 2036 and 2037, according to Bloomberg data. The downward price pressure on VRDNs, which are also high quality, comes amid rising prices (and falling yields, which move inversely to prices) of muni bonds more generally. What gives?
During tax season, muni funds aren’t immune to investors redeeming shares to cover their obligations to Uncle Sam, so rising yields on VRDNs at this time of year aren’t surprising. But this time around, VRDN yields sky-rocketed nearly 80 basis points, about four times the usual increase. The last time VRDN yields rose by such magnitude was 2008.
SALT, Supply and Demand
The yield spike doesn’t portend another financial crisis, though, because it’s driven largely by the 2017 tax reform, which capped the deduction on state and local taxes (SALT) at $10,000. Despite the pressure on VRDNs, the SALT limit has broadly made munis, which generally benefit from favorable federal, state and local tax treatment, an attractive refuge for wealthy residents of high-tax states. That demand has also come amid significantly less new muni issuance.
April muni sales of around $25 billion were off 16% from their April 2018 level. Meanwhile, flows into muni mutual funds rounded $7 billion last month, compared with net outflows of $1.8 billion in April last year, according to the Investment Company Institute. Over the first four months of 2019, muni mutual fund inflows exceeded $34 billion, far outpacing the $9.4 billion collected during the year-earlier period. No wonder the benchmark Bloomberg Barclay’s Municipal Bond Index returned 3.2% over the first four months of the year, its best January-through-April run since 2014.
Following the tax-related selling, VRDN yields ebbed to an average of roughly 2% by May 6, on cross-over demand from taxable money market funds and as muni investors top back up their muni fund holdings now that tax season is over. But that’s what paper out to 2031 and 2032 yields. So investors with smaller muni SMAs would still be well advised to review how their managers are investing their capital.
“No Economic Sense”
“It makes no economic sense to buy AAA-rated muni bonds maturing more than a decade out but yielding the same as VRDNs maturing tomorrow,” Thornburg portfolio manager Nicholos Venditti points out. Because VRDNs cost $100,000, smaller SMAs, say with $250,000 in assets, can’t afford to have just more than 40% of their assets wrapped up in a single security, he notes.
Once a separate account is established, muni SMA investors typically want their managers to quickly invest the cash seeding it. But allocation speed doesn’t necessarily translate into attractive returns if the cash goes into pricey, high-grade intermediate-term bonds from states like California or New York that yield the same as zero-duration VRDNs. Duration risk is worth taking only when compensation for it—the yield—is adequate.
To be sure, clients with smaller SMAs may raise an eyebrow at lowish yields. But they have to weigh them against complex after-tax yields on the taxable investment alternatives, and, in the aftermath of the SALT cap, they may be more focused on the tax-favored status of munis. Nonetheless, those who bother to run the numbers may discover they would be better off in Treasuries if their SMAs’ are buying richly priced muni bonds, Venditti says. When the next bout of market volatility arrives, that will become painfully apparent, he warns.
SMAs with more assets don’t necessarily face the same structural constraints if they can buy VRDNs and find high-quality muni bonds at attractive prices. Clients of those that can’t, though, might be better off in a muni mutual fund that can do both, anytime of year.



          custom text        


Thank you for your comments!
Subscribe now to stay up-to-date with Thornburg’s Blogs
Submit your email address below to see  all available E-Alert preferences, personalize subscriptions or create a new account.
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Some are necessary to make everything work while others are optional and are there to make things more convenient for you. You can read more details in our 
Cookie Preferences
